en/query/adv_sql/conditional_function.en.md, before:

### Conditional Function

| Function Syntax                          | Description                               | Example                                  | Result         |
| ---------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| CASE valueWHEN value1 [, value11 ]* THEN result1[ WHEN valueN [, valueN1 ]* THEN resultN ]*[ ELSE resultZ ]END | Simple case                              | ```select distinct CASE OPS_REGION WHEN 'Beijing'THEN 'BJ' WHEN 'Shanghai' THEN 'SH' WHEN 'Hongkong' THEN 'HK' END from kylin_sales``` | ```HK SH BJ``` |
| CASEWHEN condition1 THEN result1[ WHEN conditionN THEN resultN ]*[ ELSE resultZ ]END | Searched case                            | ```select distinct CASE  WHEN OPS_REGION='Beijing'THEN 'BJ' WHEN OPS_REGION='Shanghai' THEN 'SH' WHEN OPS_REGION='Hongkong' THEN 'HK' END from kylin_sales``` | ```HK SH BJ``` |
| NULLIF(value, value)                     | Returns NULL if the values are the same. | For example, ```NULLIF(5, 5)``` returns ```NULL```; ```NULLIF(5, 0)``` returns ```5```. |                |
| COALESCE(value, value [, value ]*)       | Provides a value if the first value is null. | ```COALESCE(NULL, 5)```                  | ```5```        |

**Note**: This function is inapplicable to Computed Column. For the information of computed column, please refer to the section [Computed Column](model/computed_column.en.md) in the chapter of **Modeling**.

Commit message:

update query cn&en (#494)
* update query cn&en

* Update aggregate_function.en.md

* Update arithmetic_function.en.md

* Update datetime_function.en.md

* Update intersect_count.en.md

* Update window_function.en.md

* Update grouping_sets.en.md

* Update grouping_sets.en.md

* Update arithmetic_function.cn.md

* Update aggregate_function.en.md

* Update arithmetic_function.en.md

* Update conditional_function.en.md

* Update datetime_function.en.md

* Update grouping_sets.en.md

* Update intersect_count.en.md

* Update string_function.en.md

* Update string_function.en.md

* Update string_function.en.md

* Update type_function.en.md

* Update window_function.en.md

* Update aggregate_function.cn.md

* Update conditional_function.cn.md

* Update grouping_sets.cn.md

* Update aggregate_function.cn.md

* Update arithmetic_function.cn.md

* Update conditional_function.cn.md

* Update datetime_function.cn.md

* Update grouping_sets.cn.md

* Update intersect_count.cn.md

* Update string_function.cn.md

* Update type_function.cn.md

* Update window_function.cn.md

* Update async_query.cn.md

* Update basic_query.cn.md

* Update basic_query.cn.md

* Update insight.cn.md

* Update pushdown.cn.md

en/query/adv_sql/conditional_function.en.md, after:

### Conditional Function

| Function Syntax                          | Description                               | Example                                  | Result         |
| ---------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| CASE valueWHEN value1 [, value11 ]* THEN result1[ WHEN valueN [, valueN1 ]* THEN resultN ]*[ ELSE resultZ ]END | Simple case                              | ```select distinct CASE OPS_REGION WHEN 'Beijing'THEN 'BJ' WHEN 'Shanghai' THEN 'SH' WHEN 'Hongkong' THEN 'HK' END from kylin_sales``` | ```HK SH BJ``` |
| CASEWHEN condition1 THEN result1[ WHEN conditionN THEN resultN ]*[ ELSE resultZ ]END | Searched case                            | ```select distinct CASE  WHEN OPS_REGION='Beijing'THEN 'BJ' WHEN OPS_REGION='Shanghai' THEN 'SH' WHEN OPS_REGION='Hongkong' THEN 'HK' END from kylin_sales``` | ```HK SH BJ``` |
| NULLIF(value, value)                     | Returns NULL if the values are the same. | For example, ```NULLIF(5, 5)``` returns ```NULL```; ```NULLIF(5, 0)``` returns ```5```. |                |
| COALESCE(value, value [, value ]*)       | Provides a value if the first value is null. | ```COALESCE(NULL, 5)```                  | ```5```        |

> **Caution**: These functions cannot be applied to **Computed Column**. For details about computed column, please refer to [Computed Column](../../model/computed_column/README.en.md) in the chapter of **Modeling**.
