en/query/adv_sql/grouping_sets.en.md, before:

## Grouping Sets

Since Kyligence Enterprise v2.1, we've provided grouping sets function in Kyligence Enterprise to support when we want aggregate data by different keys in one SQL statements. Here we are going to introduce how to use this function. 



### Grouping Sets Function

Grouping sets function query supported by Kyligence Enterprise is list as follow:

| Operator syntax                          | Description                              |
| ---------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| GROUPING(expression)                     | Returns 1 if expression is rolled up in the current row’s grouping set, 0 otherwise |
| GROUP_ID()                               | Returns an integer that uniquely identifies the combination of grouping keys |
| GROUPING_ID(expression [, expression ] * ) | Returns a bit vector of the given grouping expressions |



### Example

In this section, we would take a dataset defaulted in Kyligence Enterprise as data source to practice some typical query mentioned above. Step by step, we will introduce you how to use Grouping sets Function in Kyligence Enterprise.

#### Dataset

Select a default **Data Source** named as `learn_kylin`, then the table structure would present below: there are one fact table (`KYLIN_SALES`) and two lookup tables (`KYLIN_CAL_DT` and `KYLIN_CATEGORY_GROUPINGS`). Take a minute to check the `KYLIN_SALES` as well as its sample data, and we'll use it later.

![](images/wd_datasample.png)

### Group query

To get sales of different brands(or products), input query as: `select LEAF_CATEG_ID, LSTG_FORMAT_NAME, sum(PRICE) as metric1 from kylin_sales group by LEAF_CATEG_ID, LSTG_FORMAT_NAME`, then results returned in 0.26sec would be as follow.

![](images/grouping_sets.1.png)



### Grouping sets query

If you also want to see the result with `lstg_format_name`(dim2) rolled up, we can rewrite the sql:

```
select LEAF_CATEG_ID,
case grouping(LSTG_FORMAT_NAME) when 1 then 'ALL' else LSTG_FORMAT_NAME end,
sum(PRICE) as metric1 from kylin_sales
group by grouping sets((LEAF_CATEG_ID, LSTG_FORMAT_NAME), (LEAF_CATEG_ID))
order by LEAF_CATEG_ID
```

 Then you would get results as below:

![](images/grouping_sets.2.png)



**Note**: This function is inapplicable to Computed Column. For the information of computed column, please refer to the section [Computed Column](model/computed_column.en.md) in the chapter of **Modeling**.

Commit message:

update query cn&en (#494)
* update query cn&en

* Update aggregate_function.en.md

* Update arithmetic_function.en.md

* Update datetime_function.en.md

* Update intersect_count.en.md

* Update window_function.en.md

* Update grouping_sets.en.md

* Update grouping_sets.en.md

* Update arithmetic_function.cn.md

* Update aggregate_function.en.md

* Update arithmetic_function.en.md

* Update conditional_function.en.md

* Update datetime_function.en.md

* Update grouping_sets.en.md

* Update intersect_count.en.md

* Update string_function.en.md

* Update string_function.en.md

* Update string_function.en.md

* Update type_function.en.md

* Update window_function.en.md

* Update aggregate_function.cn.md

* Update conditional_function.cn.md

* Update grouping_sets.cn.md

* Update aggregate_function.cn.md

* Update arithmetic_function.cn.md

* Update conditional_function.cn.md

* Update datetime_function.cn.md

* Update grouping_sets.cn.md

* Update intersect_count.cn.md

* Update string_function.cn.md

* Update type_function.cn.md

* Update window_function.cn.md

* Update async_query.cn.md

* Update basic_query.cn.md

* Update basic_query.cn.md

* Update insight.cn.md

* Update pushdown.cn.md

en/query/adv_sql/grouping_sets.en.md, after:

## Grouping Sets

Since Kyligence Enterprise v2.1, we've provided grouping sets function in Kyligence Enterprise to support when we want aggregate data by different keys in one SQL statements. Here we are going to introduce how to use this function. 

### Grouping Sets Function
Grouping sets function query supported by Kyligence Enterprise is list as follow:

| Operator syntax                          | Description                              |
| ---------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| GROUPING(expression)                     | Returns 1 if expression is rolled up in the current row’s grouping set, 0 otherwise |
| GROUP_ID()                               | Returns an integer that uniquely identifies the combination of grouping keys |
| GROUPING_ID(expression [, expression ] * ) | Returns a bit vector of the given grouping expressions |

### Example
In this section, we would take a dataset defaulted in Kyligence Enterprise as data source to practice some typical query mentioned above. Step by step, we will introduce you how to use Grouping sets Function in Kyligence Enterprise.

#### Dataset
Select a default **Data Source** named as `learn_kylin`, then the table structure would present below: there are one fact table (`KYLIN_SALES`) and two lookup tables (`KYLIN_CAL_DT` and `KYLIN_CATEGORY_GROUPINGS`). Take a minute to check the `KYLIN_SALES` as well as its sample data, and we'll use it later.

![](images/wd_datasample.png)

### Group query

To get sales of different brands(or products), input query as: `select LEAF_CATEG_ID, LSTG_FORMAT_NAME, sum(PRICE) as metric1 from kylin_sales group by LEAF_CATEG_ID, LSTG_FORMAT_NAME`, then results returned in 0.26sec would be as follow.

![](images/grouping_sets.1.png)

### Grouping sets query
If you also want to see the result with `lstg_format_name`(dim2) rolled up, we can rewrite the sql:
```
select LEAF_CATEG_ID,
case grouping(LSTG_FORMAT_NAME) when 1 then 'ALL' else LSTG_FORMAT_NAME end,
sum(PRICE) as metric1 from kylin_sales
group by grouping sets((LEAF_CATEG_ID, LSTG_FORMAT_NAME), (LEAF_CATEG_ID))
order by LEAF_CATEG_ID
```
 Then you would get results as below:
 
![](images/grouping_sets.2.png)

> **Caution**: These functions cannot be applied to **Computed Column**. For details about computed column, please refer to [Computed Column](../../model/computed_column/README.en.md) in the chapter of **Modeling**.
