en/query/adv_sql/window_function.en.md, before:

## Window Function

Since Kyligence Enterprise v2.1, we've provided window function in Kyligence Enterprise to support more complicated query, keeping SQL query simple and work well. Here we are going to introduce how to use this function.



### Window Function

Window Functions query supported by Kyligence Enterprise is list as follow:

| Operator syntax                      | Description                              |
| ------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------- |
| ROW_NUMBER() OVER ()                 | Returns the number of the current row within its partition, counting from 1 |
| RANK() OVER (order by)               | Returns the rank of the current row with gaps; same as ROW_NUMBER of its first peer |
| DENSE_RANK() OVER (order by )        | Returns the rank of the current row without gaps; this function counts peer groups |
| FIRST_VALUE(value) OVER ()           | Returns *value* evaluated at the row that is the first row of the window frame |
| LAST_VALUE(value) OVER ()            | Returns *value* evaluated at the row that is the last row of the window frame |
| LEAD(value, offset, default) OVER () | Returns *value* evaluated at the row that is *offset* rows after the current row within the partition; if there is no such row, instead returns *default*. Both *offset* and *default* are evaluated with respect to the current row. If omitted, *offset* defaults to 1 and *default* to NULL |
| LAG(value, offset, default) OVER ()  | Returns *value* evaluated at the row that is *offset* rows before the current row within the partition; if there is no such row, instead returns *default*. Both *offset* and *default* are evaluated with respect to the current row. If omitted, *offset* defaults to 1 and *default* to NULL |
| NTILE(value) OVER ()                 | Returns an integer ranging from 1 to *value*, dividing the partition as equally as possible |



### Example

In this section, we would take a dataset defaulted in Kyligence Enterprise as data source to practice some typical query mentioned above. Step by step, we will introduce you how to use Window Function in Kyligence Enterprise.

#### Dataset

Select a default **Data Source** named as `learn_kylin`, then the table structure would present below: there are one fact table (`KYLIN_SALES`) and two lookup tables (`KYLIN_CAL_DT` and `KYLIN_CATEGORY_GROUPINGS`). Take a minute to check the `KYLIN_SALES` as well as its sample data, and we'll use it later.

![](images/wd_datasample.png)



#### Rank Function (row_number, rank, dense_rank, ntile)

Though we have the row column in this table, for most data analysts, generating row number is essential to get some particular results by different partitions. For instance: `select LSTG_FORMAT_NAME, row_number() over(partition by LSTG_FORMAT_NAME)as format_id ,price from kylin_sales`

Then result returns like:

![](images/wd_row_number.png)



#### Offset Function (first_value, last_value, lead, lag)

Similar with rank function, offset function would provide access to a row at a given physical offset beyond that position. To get to know the closest date recorded within the table, then you can input: `select price, part_dt, lead(part_dt,1) over(partition by LSTG_FORMAT_NAME) as latest_dt from kylin_sales`

Result would be:

![](images/wd_lead_date.png)



**Note**: This function is inapplicable to Computed Column. For the information of computed column, please refer to the section [Computed Column](model/computed_column.en.md) in the chapter of **Modeling**.

Commit message:

update query cn&en (#494)
* update query cn&en

* Update aggregate_function.en.md

* Update arithmetic_function.en.md

* Update datetime_function.en.md

* Update intersect_count.en.md

* Update window_function.en.md

* Update grouping_sets.en.md

* Update grouping_sets.en.md

* Update arithmetic_function.cn.md

* Update aggregate_function.en.md

* Update arithmetic_function.en.md

* Update conditional_function.en.md

* Update datetime_function.en.md

* Update grouping_sets.en.md

* Update intersect_count.en.md

* Update string_function.en.md

* Update string_function.en.md

* Update string_function.en.md

* Update type_function.en.md

* Update window_function.en.md

* Update aggregate_function.cn.md

* Update conditional_function.cn.md

* Update grouping_sets.cn.md

* Update aggregate_function.cn.md

* Update arithmetic_function.cn.md

* Update conditional_function.cn.md

* Update datetime_function.cn.md

* Update grouping_sets.cn.md

* Update intersect_count.cn.md

* Update string_function.cn.md

* Update type_function.cn.md

* Update window_function.cn.md

* Update async_query.cn.md

* Update basic_query.cn.md

* Update basic_query.cn.md

* Update insight.cn.md

* Update pushdown.cn.md

en/query/adv_sql/window_function.en.md, after:

## Window Function
Since Kyligence Enterprise v2.1, we've provided window function in Kyligence Enterprise to support more complicated query, keeping SQL query simple and work well. Here we are going to introduce how to use this function.

### Window Function

Window Functions query supported by Kyligence Enterprise is list as follow:

| Operator syntax                      | Description                              |
| ------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------- |
| ROW_NUMBER() OVER ()                 | Returns the number of the current row within its partition, counting from 1 |
| RANK() OVER (order by)               | Returns the rank of the current row with gaps; same as ROW_NUMBER of its first peer |
| DENSE_RANK() OVER (order by )        | Returns the rank of the current row without gaps; this function counts peer groups |
| FIRST_VALUE(value) OVER ()           | Returns *value* evaluated at the row that is the first row of the window frame |
| LAST_VALUE(value) OVER ()            | Returns *value* evaluated at the row that is the last row of the window frame |
| LEAD(value, offset, default) OVER () | Returns *value* evaluated at the row that is *offset* rows after the current row within the partition; if there is no such row, instead returns *default*. Both *offset* and *default* are evaluated with respect to the current row. If omitted, *offset* defaults to 1 and *default* to NULL |
| LAG(value, offset, default) OVER ()  | Returns *value* evaluated at the row that is *offset* rows before the current row within the partition; if there is no such row, instead returns *default*. Both *offset* and *default* are evaluated with respect to the current row. If omitted, *offset* defaults to 1 and *default* to NULL |
| NTILE(value) OVER ()                 | Returns an integer ranging from 1 to *value*, dividing the partition as equally as possible |

### Example
In this section, we would take a dataset defaulted in Kyligence Enterprise as data source to practice some typical query mentioned above. Step by step, we will introduce you how to use Window Function in Kyligence Enterprise.

#### Dataset
Select a default **Data Source** named as `learn_kylin`, then the table structure would present below: there are one fact table (`KYLIN_SALES`) and two lookup tables (`KYLIN_CAL_DT` and `KYLIN_CATEGORY_GROUPINGS`). Take a minute to check the `KYLIN_SALES` as well as its sample data, and we'll use it later.

![](images/wd_datasample.png)

#### Rank Function (row_number, rank, dense_rank, ntile)
Though we have the row column in this table, for most data analysts, generating row number is essential to get some particular results by different partitions. For instance: `select LSTG_FORMAT_NAME, row_number() over(partition by LSTG_FORMAT_NAME)as format_id ,price from kylin_sales`

Then result returns like:

![](images/wd_row_number.png)

#### Offset Function (first_value, last_value, lead, lag)
Similar with rank function, offset function would provide access to a row at a given physical offset beyond that position. To get to know the closest date recorded within the table, then you can input: `select price, part_dt, lead(part_dt,1) over(partition by LSTG_FORMAT_NAME) as latest_dt from kylin_sales`

Result will be:

![](images/wd_lead_date.png)

> **Caution**: These functions cannot be applied to **Computed Column**. For details about computed column, please refer to [Computed Column](../../model/computed_column/README.en.md) in the chapter of **Modeling**.
