en/config/metastore_jdbc_sqlserver.en.md, before:

## Use JDBC to connect SQL Server as metastore



### Config metadata in the form of JDBC

Steps below are with the case of SQL Server:

1. Create database  `kylin` in SQL Server.

2. In KAP's installation directory, set configuration item `kylin.metadata.url` of configuration file `$KYLIN_HOME/conf/kylin.properties`  to`{metadata_name}@jdbc`,
   replace `{metadata_name}` as user's metadata name, for example,`kylin_default_instance@jdbc` .

3. Set configuration items for JDBC, for example: `kylin.metadata.jdbc.dialect=sqlserver` `kylin.metadata.url=kylin_default_instance@jdbc,url=jdbc:sqlserver://localhost:1433;database=kylin,username=sa,password=sa,driverClassName=com.microsoft.sqlserver.jdbc.SQLServerDriver,maxActive=10,maxIdle=10` .

    All items are as below, configs for `url`, `username` and `password` must be set. For others, if not set, default values will be used:

    *url*: JDBC's url;

    *username*: JDBC's username;

    *password*: JDBC's password;

    *driverClassName*: JDBC's driver class name, default value is `com.mysql.jdbc.Driver`;

    *maxActive*: max number of database's connection number, default value is `5`;

    *maxIdle*: max number of database's waiting connection number, default value is `5`;

    *maxWait*: max waiting milliseconds for connecting, default value is `1000`;

    *removeAbandoned*: whether remove timeout connection automatically, default value is `true`;

    *removeAbandonedTimeout*: timeout milliseconds, default value is `300`；

4. Check the JAVA version of the environment and prepare the JDBC Driver for it ，then copy the JDBC Driver to `$KYLIN_HOME/ext` , for example, `$KYLIN_HOME/ext/sqljdbc41.jar` for JRE7.

5. For metadta doesn't depend on HBase, user is required to add configuration item `kylin.env.zookeeper-connect-string` of configuration file `$KYLIN_HOME/conf/kylin.properties` to zookeeper's url and port. If the server of KAP installs zookeeper as well, it can be set as `kylin.env.zookeeper-connect-string=localhost:2181` .

6. Start KAP.


### How to migrate metadata from HBase to JDBC

1. Set configuration item `kylin.metadata.url` of configuration file `$KYLIN_HOME/conf/kylin.properties` to the HBase metadata to be migrated .
2. Run `$KYLIN_HOME/bin/metastore.sh backup` to backup metadata, and get the backup path .
3. Set the metadata's settings to JDBC .
4. Run `$KYLIN_HOME/bin/metastore.sh restore /path/to/backup` to restore metadata, for example `metastore.sh restore meta_backups/meta_2016_06_10_20_24_50` .

Commit message:

Setting for encryption of jdbc's password

en/config/metastore_jdbc_sqlserver.en.md, after:

## Use JDBC to connect SQL Server as metastore



### Config metadata in the form of JDBC

Steps below are with the case of SQL Server:

1. Create database  `kylin` in SQL Server.

2. In KAP's installation directory, set configuration item `kylin.metadata.url` of configuration file `$KYLIN_HOME/conf/kylin.properties`  to`{metadata_name}@jdbc`,
   replace `{metadata_name}` as user's metadata name, for example,`kylin_default_instance@jdbc` .

3. Set configuration items for JDBC, for example: `kylin.metadata.jdbc.dialect=sqlserver` `kylin.metadata.url=kylin_default_instance@jdbc,url=jdbc:sqlserver://localhost:1433;database=kylin,username=sa,password=sa,driverClassName=com.microsoft.sqlserver.jdbc.SQLServerDriver,maxActive=10,maxIdle=10` .

    All items are as below, configs for `url`, `username` and `password` must be set. For others, if not set, default values will be used:

    *url*: JDBC's url;

    *username*: JDBC's username;

    *password*: JDBC's password;

    *driverClassName*: JDBC's driver class name, default value is `com.mysql.jdbc.Driver`;

    *maxActive*: max number of database's connection number, default value is `5`;

    *maxIdle*: max number of database's waiting connection number, default value is `5`;

    *maxWait*: max waiting milliseconds for connecting, default value is `1000`;

    *removeAbandoned*: whether remove timeout connection automatically, default value is `true`;

    *removeAbandonedTimeout*: timeout milliseconds, default value is `300`；
    
    *passwordEncrypted*: whether JDBC's password is encrypted，default value is `false`；

4. Under directory `$KYLIN_HOME/tomcat/webapps/kylin/WEB-INF/lib`, run command `java -classpath kap.jar:spring-beans-4.3.10.RELEASE.jar:spring-core-4.3.10.RELEASE.jar:commons-codec-1.7.jar org.apache.kylin.rest.security.PasswordPlaceholderConfigurer AES <your_password>` to get the encrypted value

5. Check the JAVA version of the environment and prepare the JDBC Driver for it ，then copy the JDBC Driver to `$KYLIN_HOME/ext` , for example, `$KYLIN_HOME/ext/sqljdbc41.jar` for JRE7.

6. For metadta doesn't depend on HBase, user is required to add configuration item `kylin.env.zookeeper-connect-string` of configuration file `$KYLIN_HOME/conf/kylin.properties` to zookeeper's url and port. If the server of KAP installs zookeeper as well, it can be set as `kylin.env.zookeeper-connect-string=localhost:2181` .

7. Start KAP.


### How to migrate metadata from HBase to JDBC

1. Set configuration item `kylin.metadata.url` of configuration file `$KYLIN_HOME/conf/kylin.properties` to the HBase metadata to be migrated .
2. Run `$KYLIN_HOME/bin/metastore.sh backup` to backup metadata, and get the backup path .
3. Set the metadata's settings to JDBC .
4. Run `$KYLIN_HOME/bin/metastore.sh restore /path/to/backup` to restore metadata, for example `metastore.sh restore meta_backups/meta_2016_06_10_20_24_50` .
