en/config/spark_dynamic_allocation.en.md, before:

## Spark Dynamic Allocation

In Spark, the resource unit is executor, something like containers in YARN. Under Spark on YARN, we use num-executors to specify the executor numbers. While executor-memory and executor-cores will limit the memory and virtual CPU cores each executor consumes.

Take KAP as sample, if user choose fixed resource allocation strategy and set num-executor to 3. Then each KAP instance will always keep 4 YARN containers(1 for application master and 3 for executor). These 4 containers will be occupied until user log out. While we use Dynamic Resource Allocation, Spark will dynamically increase and reduce executors according to KAP query engine workload which will dramatically save resource.

Please refer to official document for details of Spark Dynamic Allocation:

http://spark.apache.org/docs/1.6.2/job-scheduling.html#dynamic-resource-allocation

### Spark Dynamic Allocation Config

#### Overview
There are two parts we need to config for Spark Dynamic Allocation:
1.  Resource Management for cluster, it will be diversed due to different resource manager(YARN、Mesos、Standalone).
2.  Config file spark-default.conf, this one is irrespective of the environment.

#### Resource Manager Configuration
##### CDH

1. Log into Cloudera Manager, choose YARN configuration and find NodeManager Advanced Configuration Snippet(Safety Valve) for yarn-site.xml，config as following：

 `<property>`

 `<name>yarn.nodemanager.aux-services</name>`

 `<value>mapreduce_shuffle，spark_shuffle</value>`

 `</property>`

 `<property>`

 `<name>yarn.nodemanager.aux-services.spark_shuffle.class</name>`

 `<value>org.apache.spark.network.yarn.YarnShuffleService</value>`

 `</property>`

2. Copy the $KYLIN_HOME/spark/lib/spark-<version>-yarn-shuffle.jar and put it under path /opt/lib/kap/ of Hadoop node.

   Find NodeManager Environment Advanced Configuration Snippet （Safety Valve）in Cloudera Manager, Config:

   `YARN_USER_CLASSPATH=/opt/lib/kap/*`

   Then yarn-shuffle.jar will be added into the startup classpath of Node Manager.

3. Save the config and restart
 In Cloudera Manager, choose actions --> deploy client configuration, save and restart all services.

##### HDP
1. Log into Ambari management page, choose Yarn -> Configs -> Advanced, find following configurations via filter and update：
   `yarn.nodemanager.aux-services.spark_shuffle.class=org.apache.spark.network.yarn.YarnShuffleService`

2. Copy `$KYLIN_HOME/spark/yarn/spark-<version>-yarn-shuffle.jar` (the path before KAP 2.4.1 `$KYLIN_HOME/spark/lib/spark-<version>-yarn-shuffle.jar`) and put it under path $HDP_HOME/hadoop/lib of Hadoop node.

3. Save the config and restart all services.


#### KAP configuration
To enable the Spark Dynamic Allocaiton, we will need to add some configuration items in Spark config files. Since we can override spark configuraion in kylin.properties, we will add following configuration items in it:

`kap.storage.columnar.spark-conf.spark.executor.instances=0`

`kap.storage.columnar.spark-conf.spark.dynamicAllocation.enabled=true`

`kap.storage.columnar.spark-conf.spark.dynamicAllocation.maxExecutors=5`

`kap.storage.columnar.spark-conf.spark.dynamicAllocation.minExecutors=1`

`kap.storage.columnar.spark-conf.spark.shuffle.service.enabled=true`

`kap.storage.columnar.spark-conf.spark.dynamicAllocation.initialExecutors=3`

More configurations please refer to：
http://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/configuration.html#dynamic-allocation

### Spark Dynamic Allocation Verification
After above configurations, start KAP Plus and monitor current executor numbers in Spark Executor page.

![](images/spark_executor_original.jpg)

The executors will keep idle, so they will be reduced after a while until reaching the minimum number in configuration item.

![](images/spark_executor_min.jpg)

Submit multi-thread queries to KAP Plus via Restful API. The executors will be increase but never exceed the maximum number in configuration item. 

![](images/spark_executor_max.jpg)

Commit message:

fix typos (#475)
* assign symbol

* newest version

* KAP to Kyligence Enterprise

* typos and formats

* typos

en/config/spark_dynamic_allocation.en.md, after:

## Spark Dynamic Allocation

In Spark, the resource unit is executor, something like containers in YARN. Under Spark on YARN, we use num-executors to specify the executor numbers. While executor-memory and executor-cores will limit the memory and virtual CPU cores each executor consumes.

Take Kyligence Enterprise as sample, if user choose fixed resource allocation strategy and set num-executor to 3. Then each Kyligence Enterprise instance will always keep 4 YARN containers(1 for application master and 3 for executor). These 4 containers will be occupied until user log out. While we use Dynamic Resource Allocation, Spark will dynamically increase and reduce executors according to Kyligence Enterprise query engine workload which will dramatically save resource.

Please refer to official document for details of Spark Dynamic Allocation:

http://spark.apache.org/docs/1.6.2/job-scheduling.html#dynamic-resource-allocation

### Spark Dynamic Allocation Config

#### Overview
There are two parts we need to configure for Spark Dynamic Allocation:
1.  Resource Management for cluster, it will be diversed due to different resource manager(YARN、Mesos、Standalone).
2.  Configure file spark-default.conf, this one is irrespective of the environment.

#### Resource Manager Configuration
##### CDH

1. Log into Cloudera Manager, choose YARN configuration and find NodeManager Advanced Configuration Snippet(Safety Valve) for yarn-site.xml, config as following：

 `<property>`

 `<name>yarn.nodemanager.aux-services</name>`

 `<value>mapreduce_shuffle, spark_shuffle</value>`

 `</property>`

 `<property>`

 `<name>yarn.nodemanager.aux-services.spark_shuffle.class</name>`

 `<value>org.apache.spark.network.yarn.YarnShuffleService</value>`

 `</property>`

2. Copy the $KYLIN_HOME/spark/lib/spark-<version>-yarn-shuffle.jar and put it under path /opt/lib/kap/ of Hadoop node.

   Find NodeManager Environment Advanced Configuration Snippet  (Safety Valve) in Cloudera Manager, Config:

   `YARN_USER_CLASSPATH=/opt/lib/kap/*`

   Then yarn-shuffle.jar will be added into the startup classpath of Node Manager.

3. Save the config and restart
 In Cloudera Manager, choose actions --> deploy client configuration, save and restart all services.

##### HDP
1. Log into Ambari management page, choose Yarn -> Configs -> Advanced, find following configurations via filter and update: 
   `yarn.nodemanager.aux-services.spark_shuffle.class=org.apache.spark.network.yarn.YarnShuffleService`

2. Copy `$KYLIN_HOME/spark/yarn/spark-<version>-yarn-shuffle.jar` and put it under path $HDP_HOME/hadoop/lib of Hadoop node.

3. Save the config and restart all services.


#### Kyligence Enterprise configuration
To enable the Spark Dynamic Allocaiton, we will need to add some configuration items in Spark config files. Since we can override spark configuraion in kylin.properties, we will add following configuration items in it:

`kap.storage.columnar.spark-conf.spark.executor.instances=0`

`kap.storage.columnar.spark-conf.spark.dynamicAllocation.enabled=true`

`kap.storage.columnar.spark-conf.spark.dynamicAllocation.maxExecutors=5`

`kap.storage.columnar.spark-conf.spark.dynamicAllocation.minExecutors=1`

`kap.storage.columnar.spark-conf.spark.shuffle.service.enabled=true`

`kap.storage.columnar.spark-conf.spark.dynamicAllocation.initialExecutors=3`

More configurations please refer to: 
http://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/configuration.html#dynamic-allocation

### Spark Dynamic Allocation Verification
After above configurations, start Kyligence Enterprise Plus and monitor current executor numbers in Spark Executor page.

![](images/spark_executor_original.jpg)

The executors will keep idle, so they will be reduced after a while until reaching the minimum number in configuration item.

![](images/spark_executor_min.jpg)

Submit multi-thread queries to Kyligence Enterprise Plus via Restful API. The executors will be increase but never exceed the maximum number in configuration item. 

![](images/spark_executor_max.jpg)
