en/datasource/import_hive.en.md, before:

## Import Data from Hive

Kyligence Enterprise supports accessing *Hive* tables. 

This chapter will introduce how to access hive tables as data source. Following are the instructions.



### Prepare Sample Datasets

You can import the Kyligence Enterprise built-in sample data into Hive using executable scripts.

The script is `sample.sh`. Its default storage path is the bin directory under `KYLIN_HOME`

```sh
$KYLIN_HOME/bin/sample.sh
```

> Note: After sample.sh is executed, it is required to choose **Reload Metadata** under the **System** page. Otherwise, there will be errors in data modeling. 



Once the script is complete, execute the following commands in Hive shell to confirm the tables are imported successfully.

```hive
hive
```

Check the imported hive tables

```sh
hive> show tables;
```

Check the details of imported hive tables

```sh
hive> select count(*) from kylin_sales;
```



### Create Project with Hive Data Source

**Step 1:** Log in to Kyligence Enterprise Web UI, then add a new project by clicking the `+` at the top right on Web UI. Type project name (required) and descriptions on the pop-up page; click `OK` to finish creating a project.

![Create project](images/create_project.png)



**Step 2:** Select `Data Source` under *Studio* section of your project. Click the blue `Data Source` button and select Hive as data source (as shown below).

![Select Data Source](images/import_hive_select_source.png)

**Step 3:** Click `NEXT` and enter the *Load Hive Table Metadata* page; you can select tables you want from *Hive Table* on the left. Keyword search is also supported.

**Step 4:** Click `sync` to load the data. 

![Load data](images/import_hive_select_table.png)

> Note: By default, table. Users have options to do it and select sample size.

**Step 5**: Once the synchronization is finished, select specific tables and check the details under *Data Source* section.

![Detailed information](images/import_hive_table_info.png)

Commit message:

table sampling is enabled by default (#777)
* table samling is enabled by default

* Update import_hive.en.md

* Update import_gp.en.md

* Update import_gp.en.md

* Update import_hive.cn.md

* Update import_gp.cn.md

en/datasource/import_hive.en.md, after:

## Import Data from Hive

Kyligence Enterprise supports accessing *Hive* tables. 

This chapter will introduce how to access hive tables as data source. Following are the instructions.



### Prepare Sample Datasets

You can import the Kyligence Enterprise built-in sample data into Hive using executable scripts.

The script is `sample.sh`. Its default storage path is the bin directory under `KYLIN_HOME`

```sh
$KYLIN_HOME/bin/sample.sh
```

> Note: After sample.sh is executed, it is required to choose **Reload Metadata** under the **System** page. Otherwise, there will be errors in data modeling. 



Once the script is complete, execute the following commands in Hive shell to confirm the tables are imported successfully.

```hive
hive
```

Check the imported hive tables

```sh
hive> show tables;
```

Check the details of imported hive tables

```sh
hive> select count(*) from kylin_sales;
```



### Create Project with Hive Data Source

**Step 1:** Log in to Kyligence Enterprise Web UI, then add a new project by clicking the `+` at the top right on Web UI. Type project name (required) and descriptions on the pop-up page; click `OK` to finish creating a project.

![Create project](images/create_project.png)



**Step 2:** Select `Data Source` under *Studio* section of your project. Click the blue `Data Source` button and select Hive as data source (as shown below).

![Select Data Source](images/import_hive_select_source.png)

**Step 3:** Click `NEXT` and enter the *Load Hive Table Metadata* page; you can select tables you want from *Hive Table* on the left. Keyword search is also supported.

**Step 4:** Click `sync` to load the data. 

![Load data](images/import_hive_select_table.png)

> **Note:** Table sampling after loading is enabled by default. Table sampling results will help optimize the model design and cube design. We highly recommend you enable table sampling.

**Step 5**: Once the synchronization is finished, select specific tables and check the details under *Data Source* section.

![Detailed information](images/import_hive_table_info.png)
