en/config/pushdown/pushdown_hive.en.md, before:

## Pushdown to Hive

KAP uses Hive as cube's data source. Meanwhile, Hive can also be configured as Query Pushdown's backup query engine. For cases sqls which cannot be answered by cube, or no response time required cases, KAP can push down such sqls to hive when no cubes are matched.

####Query Pushdown config

1. In KAP's installation directory, uncomment configuration item `kylin.query.pushdown.runner-class-name` of config file `kylin.properties`, and set it to `org.apache.kylin.query.adhoc.PushDownRunnerJdbcImpl`

2. Add configuration items below in config file `kylin.properties` and restart. Configs for `kylin.query.pushdown.jdbc.url`, `kylin.query.pushdown.jdbc.driver` and `kylin.query.pushdown.jdbc.username` must be set. For others, if not set, default values will be used

   ```properties
   #Hive Jdbc's url, for example, jdbc:hive2://sandbox:10000/default
   kylin.query.pushdown.jdbc.url

   #Hive Jdbc's driver class name, for example, org.apache.hive.jdbc.HiveDriver
   kylin.query.pushdown.jdbc.driver

   #Hive Jdbc's user name
   kylin.query.pushdown.jdbc.username

   #Hive Jdbc's password, default value is empty string
   kylin.query.pushdown.jdbc.password

   #Hive Jdbc's connection pool's max connected connection number, default value is 8
   kylin.query.pushdown.jdbc.pool-max-total

   #Hive Jdbc's connection pool's max waiting connection number, default value is 8
   kylin.query.pushdown.jdbc.pool-max-idle

   #Hive Jdbc's connection pool's min waiting connected connection number, default value is 0
   kylin.query.pushdown.jdbc.pool-min-idle
   ```

Commit message:

fix typos (#475)
* assign symbol

* newest version

* KAP to Kyligence Enterprise

* typos and formats

* typos

en/config/pushdown/pushdown_hive.en.md, after:

## Pushdown to Hive

Kyligence Enterprise uses Hive as cube's data source. Meanwhile, Hive can also be configured as Query Pushdown's backup query engine. For cases sqls which cannot be answered by cube, or no response time required cases, Kyligence Enterprise can push down such sqls to hive when no cubes are matched.

####Query Pushdown config

1. In Kyligence Enterprise's installation directory, uncomment configuration item `kylin.query.pushdown.runner-class-name` of config file `kylin.properties`, and set it to `org.apache.kylin.query.adhoc.PushDownRunnerJdbcImpl`

2. Add configuration items below in config file `kylin.properties` and restart. Configs for `kylin.query.pushdown.jdbc.url`, `kylin.query.pushdown.jdbc.driver` and `kylin.query.pushdown.jdbc.username` must be set. For others, if not set, default values will be used

   ```properties
   #Hive Jdbc's url, for example, jdbc:hive2://sandbox:10000/default
   kylin.query.pushdown.jdbc.url

   #Hive Jdbc's driver class name, for example, org.apache.hive.jdbc.HiveDriver
   kylin.query.pushdown.jdbc.driver

   #Hive Jdbc's user name
   kylin.query.pushdown.jdbc.username

   #Hive Jdbc's password, default value is empty string
   kylin.query.pushdown.jdbc.password

   #Hive Jdbc's connection pool's max connected connection number, default value is 8
   kylin.query.pushdown.jdbc.pool-max-total

   #Hive Jdbc's connection pool's max waiting connection number, default value is 8
   kylin.query.pushdown.jdbc.pool-max-idle

   #Hive Jdbc's connection pool's min waiting connected connection number, default value is 0
   kylin.query.pushdown.jdbc.pool-min-idle
   ```
