en/model/cube_design/measure_design/percentile_approx.en.md, before:

## percentile_approx 查询

产品支持 percentile 函数。在 V2.5.4 以上的版本中，函数名称改为 percentile_approx，二者用法和效果相同。如果您预定义了百分比度量，则此类SQL查询可以实现亚秒级延迟。

该函数提供三种返回类型： 'percentile(100)'、'percentile(1000)' 和 'percentile(10000)'，表示精确度逐步提升，同时占用的存储资源也越多。一般场景中，我们推荐您使用percentile(100)即可。

### percentile_approx简介

percentile_approx 函数返回数值的第 p 个百分位数的值，其语法如下：

> percentile_approx({measure}, p, B)，measure 为要查询的度量，p 为 0 到 1 之间的百分比数字，包含 0 和 1，B 控制近似精度，B 越大，结果的精确度越高。percentile_approx 函数用插值法来确定第 p 个百分位数的值。
>

查询示例如下：

```
SELECT seller_id, percentile_approx(price, 0.5)
FROM KYLIN_SALES
GROUP BY seller_id
```

### 使用方法

首先，在新建 Cube 界面，点击左下角**添加度量**来添加新的度量。

![添加度量页面](images/percentile_approximate/1.cn.png)

第二步，输入度量名称，选择 **PERCENTILE_APPROX** 为表达式，选择参数值，然后根据需要选择返回类型 'percentile(100)'、'percentile(1000)' 或 'percentile(10000)'。这里的返回类型即上述语法中的 B，值越大，结果的精确度越高。

![添加度量页面](images/percentile_approximate/return_type.cn.png)

第三步，设计并构建完 cube 后，转至**分析**页面进行查询。查询结果返回 SELLER ID 列中数据在第 50 个百分比的值。

![SQL 查询](images/percentile_approximate/cube_query.cn.png)

Commit message:

MODEL module (#619)
* shell -> sh

* edit MODEL module in Chinese

* model design and create cube in EN

* cube design

* Update import_file.en.md

en/model/cube_design/measure_design/percentile_approx.en.md, after:

## Percentile (Approximate)

This product supports the function **percentile**. Since This product V2.5.4, it changed to **percentile_approx**. Both of them have the same algorithm and result. If you've pre-defined percentile measure, such SQL query will enable sub-second query latency. 

This function has three return types: 'percentile(100)', 'percentile(1000)' and 'percentile(10000)'. The higher return value means higher accuracy and higher storage resources occupied. We recommend you use percentile(100) in general scenario.



### percentile_approx Introduction

percentile_approx returns the value of below which a given percentage of observations in a group of observations fall. For example, the 20th percentile is the value below which 20% of the observations may be found. Its syntax is as below:

> percentile_approx({measure},p,B): measure is the measure to query; p is number between 0 to 1 with both included. B is to control the Approximate Accuracy. The higher the value is, the higher the accuracy of result will be. percentile_approx uses the interpolation method to determine the value of the pth percentile. 

The query example in Kyligence Enterprise is as below:

```sql
SELECT seller_id, percentile_approx(price, 0.5)
FROM KYLIN_SALES
GROUP BY seller_id
```



### How to Use

Firstly, in the third step of Cube creation, click **Add Measure** in the left corner to add a new measure.

![Add Measure](../images/percentile_approximate/1.en.png)

Secondly, input your measure name, select **PERCENTILE_APPROX** as Expression, select Param Value, and then select return type 'percentile(100)', 'percentile(1000)' and 'percentile(10000)' on demand. The return type means B listed in the above syntax. Higher value means higher accuracy and higher storage resources occupied.

![Select return type](../images/percentile_approximate/return_type.en.png)

Thirdly, design and build Cube, then go to **Insight** page to simulate query. You will get the result as below.

![SQL query](../images/percentile_approximate/cube_query.en.png)
