en/query/operator_function/function/intersect_function.en.md, before:

## Intersect Function

Users can use intersection function to calculate the value of the intersection of two data sets, with some same dimensions and one varied dimension, to analyze the retention or conversion rates.

Kyligence Enterprise supports the following intersection function,




### INTERSECT_COUNT

- Description

  - Returns the distinct count of the intersection of multiple result sets in different conditions

- Syntax

  - `intersect_count(column_to_count, column_to_filter, filter_value_list)`

- Parameters

  - `column_to_count`,  the column to be calculated and applied on distinct count, required to be added as **Precise count distinct** measure
  - `column_to_filter`, the varied dimension
  - `filter_value_list`, the value of the varied dimensions listed in `array[]`, A single element in an array can map multiple values. By default, the '|' is split. You can set `kylin.query.intersect.separator` in `kylin.properties` to configure the separator, Can take value '|' or ',', default is '|'.


- Query Example

  Take the sample dataset provided by Kyligence Enterprise as an example, table `KYLIN_SALES` simulates the online transaction data, and the following query can return the percentile of sellers who are trading day by day during 2012.01.01 to 2012.01.03.

  ```SQL
  select LSTG_FORMAT_NAME,
  intersect_count(SELLER_ID, PART_DT, array[date'2012-01-01']) as first_day,
  intersect_count(SELLER_ID, PART_DT, array[date'2012-01-02']) as second_day,
  intersect_count(SELLER_ID, PART_DT, array[date'2012-01-03']) as third_day,
  intersect_count(SELLER_ID, PART_DT, array[date'2012-01-01',date'2012-01-02']) as retention_oneday, 
  intersect_count(SELLER_ID, PART_DT, array[date'2012-01-01',date'2012-01-02',date'2012-01-03']) as retention_twoday 
  from KYLIN_SALES
  where PART_DT in (date'2012-01-01',date'2012-01-02',date'2012-01-03')
  group by LSTG_FORMAT_NAME
  ```

- Response Example

  ![](images/intersect_count.1.png)

  The result shows that there is no seller keeps trading constantly during this period.
  
  
### INTERSECT_VALUE

- Description

  - Returns the values of the intersection of multiple result sets in different conditions. If the returned result is large, it may cause the analysis page browser to crash.

- Syntax

  - `intersect_value(column_to_count, column_to_filter, filter_value_list)`

- Parameters

  - `column_to_count`,  the column to be calculated and applied on distinct count, required to be added as **Precise count distinct** measure
  - `column_to_filter`, the varied dimension
  - `filter_value_list`, the value of the varied dimensions listed in `array[]`, A single element in an array can map multiple values. By default, the '|' is split. You can set `kylin.query.intersect.separator` in `kylin.properties` to configure the separator, Can take value '|' or ',', default is '|'


- Query Example

  Take the sample dataset provided by Kyligence Enterprise as an example, table `KYLIN_SALES` simulates the online transaction data, and the following query can return the percentile of sellers who are trading day by day during 2012.01.01 to 2012.01.03.

  ```SQL
  select LSTG_FORMAT_NAME,
  intersect_value(SELLER_ID, PART_DT, array[date'2012-01-01']) as first_day,
  intersect_value(SELLER_ID, PART_DT, array[date'2012-01-02']) as second_day,
  intersect_value(SELLER_ID, PART_DT, array[date'2012-01-03']) as third_day,
  intersect_value(SELLER_ID, PART_DT, array[date'2012-01-01',date'2012-01-02']) as retention_oneday, 
  intersect_value(SELLER_ID, PART_DT, array[date'2012-01-01',date'2012-01-02',date'2012-01-03']) as retention_twoday 
  from KYLIN_SALES
  where PART_DT in (date'2012-01-01',date'2012-01-02',date'2012-01-03')
  group by LSTG_FORMAT_NAME
  ```

- Response Example

  ![](images/intersect_value.1.png)

  The result shows that set of keeping trading constantly's sellerId during this period.

Commit message:

add limitaton for column to filter

en/query/operator_function/function/intersect_function.en.md, after:

## Intersect Function

Users can use intersection function to calculate the value of the intersection of two data sets, with some same dimensions and one varied dimension, to analyze the retention or conversion rates.

Kyligence Enterprise supports the following intersection function,




### INTERSECT_COUNT

- Description

  - Returns the distinct count of the intersection of multiple result sets in different conditions

- Syntax

  - `intersect_count(column_to_count, column_to_filter, filter_value_list)`

- Parameters

  - `column_to_count`,  the column to be calculated and applied on distinct count, required to be added as **Precise count distinct** measure
  - `column_to_filter`, the varied dimension
  - `filter_value_list`, the value of the varied dimensions listed in `array[]`, When `column_to_filter` is of type varchar, A single element in an array can map multiple values. By default, the '|' is split. You can set `kylin.query.intersect.separator` in `kylin.properties` to configure the separator, Can take value '|' or ',', default is '|'.


- Query Example

  Take the sample dataset provided by Kyligence Enterprise as an example, table `KYLIN_SALES` simulates the online transaction data, and the following query can return the percentile of sellers who are trading day by day during 2012.01.01 to 2012.01.03.

  ```SQL
  select LSTG_FORMAT_NAME,
  intersect_count(SELLER_ID, PART_DT, array[date'2012-01-01']) as first_day,
  intersect_count(SELLER_ID, PART_DT, array[date'2012-01-02']) as second_day,
  intersect_count(SELLER_ID, PART_DT, array[date'2012-01-03']) as third_day,
  intersect_count(SELLER_ID, PART_DT, array[date'2012-01-01',date'2012-01-02']) as retention_oneday, 
  intersect_count(SELLER_ID, PART_DT, array[date'2012-01-01',date'2012-01-02',date'2012-01-03']) as retention_twoday 
  from KYLIN_SALES
  where PART_DT in (date'2012-01-01',date'2012-01-02',date'2012-01-03')
  group by LSTG_FORMAT_NAME
  ```

- Response Example

  ![](images/intersect_count.1.png)

  The result shows that there is no seller keeps trading constantly during this period.
  
  
### INTERSECT_VALUE

- Description

  - Returns the values of the intersection of multiple result sets in different conditions. If the returned result is large, it may cause the analysis page browser to crash.

- Syntax

  - `intersect_value(column_to_count, column_to_filter, filter_value_list)`

- Parameters

  - `column_to_count`,  the column to be calculated and applied on distinct count, required to be added as **Precise count distinct** measure
  - `column_to_filter`, the varied dimension
  - `filter_value_list`, the value of the varied dimensions listed in `array[]`, When `column_to_filter` is of type varchar, A single element in an array can map multiple values. By default, the '|' is split. You can set `kylin.query.intersect.separator` in `kylin.properties` to configure the separator, Can take value '|' or ',', default is '|'


- Query Example

  Take the sample dataset provided by Kyligence Enterprise as an example, table `KYLIN_SALES` simulates the online transaction data, and the following query can return the percentile of sellers who are trading day by day during 2012.01.01 to 2012.01.03.

  ```SQL
  select LSTG_FORMAT_NAME,
  intersect_value(SELLER_ID, PART_DT, array[date'2012-01-01']) as first_day,
  intersect_value(SELLER_ID, PART_DT, array[date'2012-01-02']) as second_day,
  intersect_value(SELLER_ID, PART_DT, array[date'2012-01-03']) as third_day,
  intersect_value(SELLER_ID, PART_DT, array[date'2012-01-01',date'2012-01-02']) as retention_oneday, 
  intersect_value(SELLER_ID, PART_DT, array[date'2012-01-01',date'2012-01-02',date'2012-01-03']) as retention_twoday 
  from KYLIN_SALES
  where PART_DT in (date'2012-01-01',date'2012-01-02',date'2012-01-03')
  group by LSTG_FORMAT_NAME
  ```

- Response Example

  ![](images/intersect_value.1.png)

  The result shows that set of keeping trading constantly's sellerId during this period.
