en/integration/qlik_enterprise.en.md, before:

## Integration with Qlik Sense Enterprise

Qlik Sense is a new generation of business intelligence software that provides comprehensive and easy-to-use data analysis and data visualization capabilities to quickly build and deploy powerful analytics applications. This article will guide you to connect Kyligence Enterprise with Qlik Sense Enterprise.

### Prerequisite
* Install Kyligence ODBC Driver. Please refer to [Kyligence ODBC Driver](../driver/kyligence_odbc.en.md).
* Install Qlik Sense Enterprise.
* Download **Kyligence Data Connector for Qlik** on the Kyligence download webpage, unzip and copy it into the Qlik installed directory(/QlikData/sense/client), keep the folder name as *KyligenceDataConnectorForQlik*.


### Modify the config

You can find a file named `KE_METADATA_LOADER.qvf` in the unziped plugin folder. Upload it in **QMC-APP** and copy its app id.
![import QVF file](images/Qlik/qse-001.png)
![copy APP ID](images/Qlik/qse-002.png)

Open the JSON config file named `qdc_config.json`, replace the **appid** value with the one you copied in **QMC** just now. And also replace the *kyligence-pc* in the **connect** link with your actual Qlik server name.
![modify json config](images/Qlik/qse-004.png)

Now we can use this app to load our Kyligence cube metadata into Qlik.

1. Open this app which you can find in Qlik hub named **KE_METADATA_LOADER** and switch to its Data-load-editor page.
![open KE_METADATA_LOADER](images/Qlik/qse-005.png)

2. Create a valid **Qlik rest connector** to connect with Kyligence Enterprise. Hit the **Create new Connection** button, then choose **Rest** to start the creation. Fill the URL column with the API in the format below: "http://ip:port/kylin/api/cubes"Fill the Authentication column with **Basic**** type and your Kyligence Enterprise username and password. Click **Test Connection**. After its success, click Save button.
![create REST Connector](images/Qlik/qse-003.png)
![create REST Connector](images/Qlik/qse-006.png)

3. Click the button on the right panel to insert the connection string, and replace the origin string with it. Also, you need to change the **KE_HOST** and **KE_PORT** variable to your actual Kyligence Enterprise address.
![modify connect information](images/Qlik/qse-007.png)

When this is done, click **Load data** button to load the cube metadata into Qlik.
>**Note**: If the cubes in Kyligence Enterprise are changed, you will need to reload this app.

### Create a Qlik APP with Kyligence Data Connector for Qlik

Open your internet browser, input the URL below:

https://[ your_qlik_server_name]/resources/KyligenceDataConnectorForQlik/index.html

Click the first entrance, start your trip to create an app based on the cube.
![open the application](images/Qlik/qse-009.png)

1. Input the information to connect Kyligence, then click **Apply Data Connection**.
![connect Kyligence](images/Qlik/qse-010.png)

2. Choose **cube** in the rows you would like to use in this app. 
![choose Cube](images/Qlik/qse-011.png)

3. Click **Add Cube** and **Create Script** to generate **Qlik load script**. If the script is correct, click **Apply Selected Cube**.
![preview script](images/Qlik/qse-013.png)

4. Finally, click **Create Application**. After the process finished, click to open the link **Click to Open APP**. Now you can see the Cube data has been loaded in the app.
![create App](images/Qlik/qse-012.png)

Now, you can analyze the data in Kyligence Enterprise in the generated app.
![make insights](images/Qlik/qse-014.png)

Commit message:

Qlik connector update limitaion (#593)
* qlik connector update limitaion

* Update qlik_enterprise.en.md

* Update qlik_enterprise.cn.md

en/integration/qlik_enterprise.en.md, after:

## Integration with Qlik Sense Enterprise

Qlik Sense is a new generation of business intelligence software that provides comprehensive and easy-to-use data analysis and data visualization capabilities to quickly build and deploy powerful analytics applications. This article will guide you to connect Kyligence Enterprise with Qlik Sense Enterprise.

### Prerequisite
* Install Kyligence ODBC Driver. Please refer to [Kyligence ODBC Driver](../driver/kyligence_odbc.en.md).
* Install Qlik Sense Enterprise.
* Download **Kyligence Data Connector for Qlik** on the Kyligence download webpage, unzip and copy it into the Qlik installed directory(/QlikData/sense/client), keep the folder name as *KyligenceDataConnectorForQlik*.


### Modify The Config

You can find a file named `KE_METADATA_LOADER.qvf` in the unziped plugin folder. Upload it in **QMC-APP** and copy its app id.
![import QVF file](images/Qlik/qse-001.png)
![copy APP ID](images/Qlik/qse-002.png)

Open the JSON config file named `qdc_config.json`, replace the **appid** value with the one you copied in **QMC** just now. And also replace the *kyligence-pc* in the **connect** link with your actual Qlik server name.
![modify json config](images/Qlik/qse-004.png)

Now we can use this app to load our Kyligence cube metadata into Qlik.

1. Open this app which you can find in Qlik hub named **KE_METADATA_LOADER** and switch to its Data-load-editor page.
![open KE_METADATA_LOADER](images/Qlik/qse-005.png)

2. Create a valid **Qlik rest connector** to connect with Kyligence Enterprise. Hit the **Create new Connection** button, then choose **Rest** to start the creation. Fill the URL column with the API in the format below: "http://ip:port/kylin/api/cubes"Fill the Authentication column with **Basic**** type and your Kyligence Enterprise username and password. Click **Test Connection**. After its success, click Save button.
![create REST Connector](images/Qlik/qse-003.png)
![create REST Connector](images/Qlik/qse-006.png)

3. Click the button on the right panel to insert the connection string, and replace the origin string with it. Also, you need to change the **KE_HOST** and **KE_PORT** variable to your actual Kyligence Enterprise address.
![modify connect information](images/Qlik/qse-007.png)

When this is done, click **Load data** button to load the cube metadata into Qlik.
>**Note**: If the cubes in Kyligence Enterprise are changed, you will need to reload this app.

### Create a Qlik APP with Kyligence Data Connector for Qlik

Open your internet browser, input the URL below:

https://[ your_qlik_server_name]/resources/KyligenceDataConnectorForQlik/index.html

Click the first entrance, start your trip to create an app based on the cube.
![open the application](images/Qlik/qse-009.png)

1. Input the information to connect Kyligence, then click **Apply Data Connection**.
![connect Kyligence](images/Qlik/qse-010.png)

2. Choose **cube** in the rows you would like to use in this app. 
![choose Cube](images/Qlik/qse-011.png)

3. Click **Add Cube** and **Create Script** to generate **Qlik load script**. If the script is correct, click **Apply Selected Cube**.
![preview script](images/Qlik/qse-013.png)

4. Finally, click **Create Application**. After the process finished, click to open the link **Click to Open APP**. Now you can see the Cube data has been loaded in the app.
![create App](images/Qlik/qse-012.png)

Now, you can analyze the data in Kyligence Enterprise in the generated app.
![make insights](images/Qlik/qse-014.png)


### Limitations

1. For **Qlik Direct Query Mode**, **Join As** is not supported, so cube based on that kind of model cannot be loaded into Qlik.
2. When making insights in QLik, if you drag dimension first, Qlik will send a detailed query to Kyligence and report an error. So it is recommended to drag a measure first.
3. You can sync measures defined in Kyligence using Kyligence Data Connector for Qlik, but only the basic measures will be sync to Qlik for now, like *Count*, *SUM*, *MAX*, *MIN*.
