en/integration/qlik.en.md, before:

## Integration with Qlik Sense

Qlik Sense delivers intuitive platform solutions for self-service data visualization, guided analytics applications, embedded analytics and reporting. It is a new player in the Business Intelligence (BI) tools world, with a high growth since 2013. It has connectors with Hadoop Database (Hive and Impala). Now it can be integrated with KAP. This article will guide you to connect KAP with Qlik Sense.  

### Install Kyligence ODBC Driver

For the installation information, please refer to [Kyligence ODBC Driver tutorial](../driver/kyligence_odbc.en.md).

#### Install Qlik Sense

For the installation of Qlik Sense, please visit [Qlik Sense Desktop download](https://www.qlik.com/us/try-or-buy/download-qlik-sense).

### Connection with Qlik Sense
After configuring your Local DSN and installing Qlik Sense successfully, you may go through the following steps to connect KAP with Qlik Sense.

1. From Windows Desktop Shortcut or click `Start` -> `All Applications` -> `Qlik Sense` -> `Qlik Sense Desktop` to open the application `Qlik Sense Desktop`.

2. Input your Qlik account to login, then the following dialog will pop up. Click `Create A New App`.![Create New Application](images/qlik/welcome_to_qlik_desktop.png)

   You may specify any name different from existing applications and then open this application. In this example, we name it as “Kylinfortesting".![Specify a unique name](images/qlik/create_new_application.png)

3. There are two choices in the Application View. Please select the bottom `Script Editor`.![Select Script Editor](images/qlik/script_editor.png)

   The Data Load Editor window shows. Click `Create New Connection` in the upper right of this page.![Create New Data Connection](images/qlik/create_data_connection.png)

   Select `DSN` you have created, ignore the account information, and then click `Create`. ![ODBC Connection](images/qlik/odbc_connection.png)

4. Change the default scripts of "TimeFormat", "DateFormat" and "TimestampFormat" to:

   `SET TimeFormat='h:mm:ss';`

   `SET DateFormat='YYYY-MM-DD';`

   `SET TimestampFormat='YYYY-MM-DD h:mm:ss[.fff]';`

5. Configure Direct Query mode

   Given the Peta-byte scale Cube size in a usual KAP production environment, we recommend user to use Direct Query mode in Qlik Sense and avoid importing data into Qlik sense.

   You may be able to enable Direct Query mode by typing `Direct Query` in front of your query script in Script editor.

   Below is the screenshot of such Direct Query script against *kylin_sales_cube* in *Learn_kylin* project.![Script](images/Qlik/script_run_result.PNG)

   Once you defined such script, Qlik Sense can generate SQL based on this script for your report.

   It is recommended that you define Dimension and Measure corresponding to the Dimension and Measure in the KAP Cube.  

   The whole script has been posted for your reference. 

   You may also be able to utilize KAP built-in functions by creating a Native expression, for example: `NATIVE('extract(month from PART_DT)') ` 

   Make sure to update `LIB CONNECT TO 'kylin';` to the DSN you created. 

   ```sql
   SET ThousandSep=',';
   SET DecimalSep='.';
   SET MoneyThousandSep=',';
   SET MoneyDecimalSep='.';
   SET MoneyFormat='$#,##0.00;-$#,##0.00';
   SET TimeFormat='h:mm:ss';
   SET DateFormat='YYYY/MM/DD';
   SET TimestampFormat='YYYY/MM/DD h:mm:ss[.fff]';
   SET FirstWeekDay=6;
   SET BrokenWeeks=1;
   SET ReferenceDay=0;
   SET FirstMonthOfYear=1;
   SET CollationLocale='en-US';
   SET CreateSearchIndexOnReload=1;
   SET MonthNames='Jan;Feb;Mar;Apr;May;Jun;Jul;Aug;Sep;Oct;Nov;Dec';
   SET LongMonthNames='January;February;March;April;May;June;July;August;September;October;November;December';
   SET DayNames='Mon;Tue;Wed;Thu;Fri;Sat;Sun';
   SET LongDayNames='Monday;Tuesday;Wednesday;Thursday;Friday;Saturday;Sunday';
   LIB CONNECT TO 'kylin';
   DIRECT QUERY
   DIMENSION 
     TRANS_ID,
     YEAR_BEG_DT,
     MONTH_BEG_DT,
     WEEK_BEG_DT,
     PART_DT,
     LSTG_FORMAT_NAME,
     OPS_USER_ID,
     OPS_REGION,
     NATIVE('extract(month from PART_DT)') AS PART_MONTH,
      NATIVE('extract(year from PART_DT)') AS PART_YEAR,
     META_CATEG_NAME,
     CATEG_LVL2_NAME,
     CATEG_LVL3_NAME,
     ACCOUNT_BUYER_LEVEL,
     NAME
   MEASURE
       ITEM_COUNT,
       PRICE,
       SELLER_ID
   FROM KYLIN_SALES 
   join KYLIN_CATEGORY_GROUPINGS  
   on( SITE_ID=LSTG_SITE_ID 
   and KYLIN_SALES.LEAF_CATEG_ID=KYLIN_CATEGORY_GROUPINGS.LEAF_CATEG_ID)
   join KYLIN_CAL_DT
   on (KYLIN_CAL_DT.CAL_DT=KYLIN_SALES.PART_DT)
   join KYLIN_ACCOUNT 
   on (KYLIN_ACCOUNT.ACCOUNT_ID=KYLIN_SALES.BUYER_ID)
   JOIN KYLIN_COUNTRY
   on (KYLIN_COUNTRY.COUNTRY=KYLIN_ACCOUNT.ACCOUNT_COUNTRY)
   ```

   Click **Load Data** on the upper right of the window, Qlik Sense will then send out inspection query to test the connection based on the script.![Load Data](images/qlik/load_data.png)

6. Create a new report

   On the top left manu open **App Overview**.![Open App Overview](images/Qlik/go_to_app_overview.png)

   Click **Create new sheet** on the pop-up page.![Create new sheet](images/Qlik/create_new_report.png)

   Select the charts you need, then add dimension and measurement based on your requirements. ![Select the required charts, dimension and measure](images/qlik/add_dimension.png)

   You will get your worksheet and the connection is complete. Your KAP data shows in Qlik Sense now.![View KAP data in Qlik Sense](images/Qlik/report.png)

   Please note that if you want the report to hit on Cube, you need to create the measure exactly as those are defined in the Cube. For the case of *Kylin_sales_cube* in Learn_kylin project, we use sum(price) as an example. 

![Create Measure that can hit on Cube](images/Qlik/measure.png)

### Connection with Qlik Sense Hub 


#### Upload apps from Qlik Sense Desktop to Qlik Sense Hub

1. From the browser, go to `Qlik Managerment Console (QMC)` and select the `License and tokens` module.

![进入QMC](images/Qlik/01-licenses.PNG)

2. Select `QMC` -> `License and tokens` -> `User access allocations` -> `Allocate` to add the current user and enable the use of `Qlik Sense Hub`.

![开启qlik hub](images/Qlik/02-user_access.PNG)

3. Select the `Apps` module in QMC

![选择APPS](images/Qlik/03-apps.PNG)

4. Select the Apps module in QMC and select `Import` to import the application created by `Qlik Sense Desktop` locally.

![导入APP](images/Qlik/04-add_apps.PNG)

5. Select `Publish` to publish applications that have just been imported or previously existed.

![发布APP](images/Qlik/05-publish_app.PNG)

6. Enter `Qlik Sense Hub`, you can find the application just released in the `Streams` module. If you just import it and not publish it, the application exists in the `Personal` module.

![进入APP](images/Qlik/06_hub_app.PNG)

7. Go to the KAP_QLIK application just released to view the charts created in `Qlik Sense Desktop`.

![查看图表](images/Qlik/07_hub_Qlik.PNG)

#### Connect KAP directly in Qlik Sense Hub

1. Create a new application in the `Qlik Sense Hub` through a browser and connect to a KAP data source. The connection method is the same as connecting KAP in `Qlik Sense Desktop`.

![新建应用](images/Qlik/08_hub_create.PNG)

2. Edit the application you just created and use the data in KAP freely.

![编辑应用](images/Qlik/09_hub_table.PNG)

3. Edit the chart and make it the same way as in `Qlik Sense Desktop`.

![编辑图表](images/Qlik/10_hub_complete.PNG)

Commit message:

add query limit 1000 and typo fixes(#465)
* add query limit 1000 and some typo fixes

en/integration/qlik.en.md, after:

## Integration with Qlik Sense

Qlik Sense delivers intuitive platform solutions for self-service data visualization, guided analytics applications, embedded analytics and reporting. It is a new player in the Business Intelligence (BI) tools world, with a high growth since 2013. It has connectors with Hadoop Database (Hive and Impala). Now it can be integrated with KAP. This article will guide you to connect KAP with Qlik Sense.  

### Install Kyligence ODBC Driver

For the installation information, please refer to [Kyligence ODBC Driver tutorial](../driver/kyligence_odbc.en.md).

#### Install Qlik Sense

For the installation of Qlik Sense, please visit [Qlik Sense Desktop download](https://www.qlik.com/us/try-or-buy/download-qlik-sense).

### Connection with Qlik Sense
After configuring your Local DSN and installing Qlik Sense successfully, you may go through the following steps to connect KAP with Qlik Sense.

1. From Windows Desktop Shortcut or click `Start` -> `All Applications` -> `Qlik Sense` -> `Qlik Sense Desktop` to open the application `Qlik Sense Desktop`.

2. Input your Qlik account to login, then the following dialog will pop up. Click `Create A New App`.![Create New Application](images/qlik/welcome_to_qlik_desktop.png)

   You may specify any name different from existing applications and then open this application. In this example, we name it as “Kylinfortesting".![Specify a unique name](images/qlik/create_new_application.png)

3. There are two choices in the Application View. Please select the bottom `Script Editor`.![Select Script Editor](images/qlik/script_editor.png)

   The Data Load Editor window shows. Click `Create New Connection` in the upper right of this page.![Create New Data Connection](images/qlik/create_data_connection.png)

   Select `DSN` you have created, ignore the account information, and then click `Create`. ![ODBC Connection](images/qlik/odbc_connection.png)

4. Change the default scripts of "TimeFormat", "DateFormat" and "TimestampFormat" to:

   `SET TimeFormat='h:mm:ss';`

   `SET DateFormat='YYYY-MM-DD';`

   `SET TimestampFormat='YYYY-MM-DD h:mm:ss[.fff]';`

5. Configure Direct Query mode

   Given the Peta-byte scale Cube size in a usual KAP production environment, we recommend user to use Direct Query mode in Qlik Sense and avoid importing data into Qlik sense.

   You may be able to enable Direct Query mode by typing `Direct Query` in front of your query script in Script editor.

   > Tip: When you connect Qlik to Kyligence Enterprise, it will send a query which triggers full table scan. This will take a relatively long time to process the query when the dataset is extremely large. You can adjust parameter `kylin.query.force-limit` in `kylin.properties` to 1000, which indicates that the total records queried by statement `select *` from the data source is limited to 1000.
   
   Below is the screenshot of such Direct Query script against *kylin_sales_cube* in *Learn_kylin* project.![Script](images/Qlik/script_run_result.PNG)

   Once you defined such script, Qlik Sense can generate SQL based on this script for your report.

   It is recommended that you define Dimension and Measure corresponding to the Dimension and Measure in the KAP Cube.  

   The whole script has been posted for your reference. 

   You may also be able to utilize KAP built-in functions by creating a Native expression, for example: `NATIVE('extract(month from PART_DT)') ` 

   Make sure to update `LIB CONNECT TO 'kylin';` to the DSN you created. 

   ```sql
   SET ThousandSep=',';
   SET DecimalSep='.';
   SET MoneyThousandSep=',';
   SET MoneyDecimalSep='.';
   SET MoneyFormat='$#,##0.00;-$#,##0.00';
   SET TimeFormat='h:mm:ss';
   SET DateFormat='YYYY/MM/DD';
   SET TimestampFormat='YYYY/MM/DD h:mm:ss[.fff]';
   SET FirstWeekDay=6;
   SET BrokenWeeks=1;
   SET ReferenceDay=0;
   SET FirstMonthOfYear=1;
   SET CollationLocale='en-US';
   SET CreateSearchIndexOnReload=1;
   SET MonthNames='Jan;Feb;Mar;Apr;May;Jun;Jul;Aug;Sep;Oct;Nov;Dec';
   SET LongMonthNames='January;February;March;April;May;June;July;August;September;October;November;December';
   SET DayNames='Mon;Tue;Wed;Thu;Fri;Sat;Sun';
   SET LongDayNames='Monday;Tuesday;Wednesday;Thursday;Friday;Saturday;Sunday';
   LIB CONNECT TO 'kylin';
   DIRECT QUERY
   DIMENSION 
     TRANS_ID,
     YEAR_BEG_DT,
     MONTH_BEG_DT,
     WEEK_BEG_DT,
     PART_DT,
     LSTG_FORMAT_NAME,
     OPS_USER_ID,
     OPS_REGION,
     NATIVE('extract(month from PART_DT)') AS PART_MONTH,
      NATIVE('extract(year from PART_DT)') AS PART_YEAR,
     META_CATEG_NAME,
     CATEG_LVL2_NAME,
     CATEG_LVL3_NAME,
     ACCOUNT_BUYER_LEVEL,
     NAME
   MEASURE
       ITEM_COUNT,
       PRICE,
       SELLER_ID
   FROM KYLIN_SALES 
   join KYLIN_CATEGORY_GROUPINGS  
   on( SITE_ID=LSTG_SITE_ID 
   and KYLIN_SALES.LEAF_CATEG_ID=KYLIN_CATEGORY_GROUPINGS.LEAF_CATEG_ID)
   join KYLIN_CAL_DT
   on (KYLIN_CAL_DT.CAL_DT=KYLIN_SALES.PART_DT)
   join KYLIN_ACCOUNT 
   on (KYLIN_ACCOUNT.ACCOUNT_ID=KYLIN_SALES.BUYER_ID)
   JOIN KYLIN_COUNTRY
   on (KYLIN_COUNTRY.COUNTRY=KYLIN_ACCOUNT.ACCOUNT_COUNTRY)
   ```

   Click **Load Data** on the upper right of the window, Qlik Sense will then send out inspection query to test the connection based on the script.![Load Data](images/qlik/load_data.png)

6. Create a new report

   On the top left manu open **App Overview**.![Open App Overview](images/Qlik/go_to_app_overview.png)

   Click **Create new sheet** on the pop-up page.![Create new sheet](images/Qlik/create_new_report.png)

   Select the charts you need, then add dimension and measurement based on your requirements. ![Select the required charts, dimension and measure](images/qlik/add_dimension.png)

   You will get your worksheet and the connection is complete. Your KAP data shows in Qlik Sense now.![View KAP data in Qlik Sense](images/Qlik/report.png)

   Please note that if you want the report to hit on Cube, you need to create the measure exactly as those are defined in the Cube. For the case of *Kylin_sales_cube* in Learn_kylin project, we use sum(price) as an example. 

![Create Measure that can hit on Cube](images/Qlik/measure.png)

### Connection with Qlik Sense Hub 


#### Upload apps from Qlik Sense Desktop to Qlik Sense Hub

1. From the browser, go to `Qlik Managerment Console (QMC)` and select the `License and tokens` module.

![进入QMC](images/Qlik/01-licenses.PNG)

2. Select `QMC` -> `License and tokens` -> `User access allocations` -> `Allocate` to add the current user and enable the use of `Qlik Sense Hub`.

![开启qlik hub](images/Qlik/02-user_access.PNG)

3. Select the `Apps` module in QMC

![选择APPS](images/Qlik/03-apps.PNG)

4. Select the Apps module in QMC and select `Import` to import the application created by `Qlik Sense Desktop` locally.

![导入APP](images/Qlik/04-add_apps.PNG)

5. Select `Publish` to publish applications that have just been imported or previously existed.

![发布APP](images/Qlik/05-publish_app.PNG)

6. Enter `Qlik Sense Hub`, you can find the application just released in the `Streams` module. If you just import it and not publish it, the application exists in the `Personal` module.

![进入APP](images/Qlik/06_hub_app.PNG)

7. Go to the KAP_QLIK application just released to view the charts created in `Qlik Sense Desktop`.

![查看图表](images/Qlik/07_hub_Qlik.PNG)

#### Connect KAP directly in Qlik Sense Hub

1. Create a new application in the `Qlik Sense Hub` through a browser and connect to a KAP data source. The connection method is the same as connecting KAP in `Qlik Sense Desktop`.

![新建应用](images/Qlik/08_hub_create.PNG)

2. Edit the application you just created and use the data in KAP freely.

![编辑应用](images/Qlik/09_hub_table.PNG)

3. Edit the chart and make it the same way as in `Qlik Sense Desktop`.

![编辑图表](images/Qlik/10_hub_complete.PNG)
