en/integration/bi/tableau/README.md, before:

## Tableau

Tableau is one of the most popular business intelligence applications. It is very easy for users to generate visualized diagrams, stories, and reports on huge amount of data via drag and drop.

This section will introduce two methods available to connect Tableau with Kyligence Enterprise.

- Quick sync up model by using Kyligence Enterprise TDS export function
- Manually build mapping model 

### Prerequisites

- Install the Kyligence ODBC driver. For installation instructions, please refer to [Kyligence ODBC Driver](../../driver/odbc/README.md).

- To support detail data query, you need configure table index or push down.


### Method 1: Quick Sync Up Model by Using TDS Import/Export Function

After modeling and creating cube, you can export cube definition as Tableau model definition file in Kyligence Enterprise and import it in Tableau. Please follow the steps below:

**Step 1:** Export Tableau Data source (TDS) file from Kyligence Enterprise

- Under **Model** > **Cube** module
- Select a **Ready** Cube
- Click **More Action** icon and select **Export TDS** option, a pop-up page shows:

> **Note:**
>
> - If "Include Table Index" is checked, the exported file contains all available columns in the cube.
> - If "Include Table Index" is unchecked, the exported file contains only the dimensions and measures defined in the cube, not including the foreign key of the fact table and the primary key of the snapshot table.

**Step 2:** Import TDS file into Tableau

- Copy the TDS file to the environment which tableau installed, and double click on it
- In the pop-up window, enter authorization information.
- Click **OK** 

**Step 3:** In Tableau, check model import, such as dimension, measure etc.


### Method 2: Manually Build Mapping Model

You can connect Kyligence Enterprise through ODBC Driver, and manually map Kyligence model in Tableau

The following detail steps required for mapping data model :

1. Start Tableau, under **Data**>**Connect**>**Other Databases(ODBC)**
2. In the pop-up window, select Driver **Kyligence ODBCDriver**, and click **Connect**
3. In **Connection Attributes**, config the connection information as following, and click **OK** 
- Host
- Port
- Username
- Password
- Project
4. (Or) In the pop-up window, select the existing DSN to connect
5. In Tableau, you need rebuild data model refer to Kyligence Enterprise. How to create model in Tableau please refer to Tableau official website.

### Other Remarks

When you connect Tableau to Kyligence Enterprise, it will send a query which triggers full table scan. This will take a relatively long time to process the query when the dataset is extremely large. There are two ways to avoid this situation

**Method 1**: You can download **Kyligence Tableau Datasource Customization (TDC)** file from Kyligence download center and apply it to your Tableau. This is a Kyligence specific connection configuration file with some capability customizations   which helps Tableau connect to Kyligence . 

Tableau provides a way to customize TDC profiles, hence to meet Kyligence Enterprise's specific query specifications. Below are some advantages:

- Effectively reduce ODBC connection time by reducing the times of probing ODBC connection.
- Provides query specification customization support for Tableau connections and enhance system robustness.


Step 1: Download file named Tableau Datasource Customization on [Kyligence Download](http://download.kyligence.io/#/addons).

Step 2: Copy the file into the required Tableau directory. 

- For Tableau Desktop, the default location is:

`Documents\My Tableau Repository\Datasources`

- For Tableau Server，the default location is： 

Windows environment

`Program Files\Tableau\Tableau Server\<version>\bin`

Or

`ProgramData\Tableau\Tableau Server\data\tabsvc\vizqlserver\Datasources`

Linux environment

`/var/opt/tableau/tableau_server/data/tabsvc/vizqlserver/Datasources/`

> **Note:** The path of datasources applies to operating systems with English locale. If your Tableau is running in a Non-English environment, e.g. in Chinese, the directory "\Datasources" is then called "\数据源".

**Method 2:** You can set the parameter `kylin.query.force-limit` in `kylin.properties` to limit returned records, such as 1000.

Commit message:

import TDS include cube desc

en/integration/bi/tableau/README.md, after:

## Tableau

Tableau is one of the most popular business intelligence applications. It is very easy for users to generate visualized diagrams, stories, and reports on huge amount of data via drag and drop.

This section will introduce two methods available to connect Tableau with Kyligence Enterprise.

- Quick sync up model by using Kyligence Enterprise TDS export function
- Manually build mapping model 

### Prerequisites

- Install the Kyligence ODBC driver. For installation instructions, please refer to [Kyligence ODBC Driver](../../driver/odbc/README.md).

- To support detail data query, you need configure table index or push down.


### Method 1: Quick Sync Up Model by Using TDS Import/Export Function

After modeling and creating cube, you can export cube definition as Tableau model definition file in Kyligence Enterprise and import it in Tableau. Please follow the steps below:

**Step 1:** Export Tableau Data source (TDS) file from Kyligence Enterprise

- Under **Model** > **Cube** module
- Select a **Ready** Cube
- Click **More Action** icon and select **Export TDS** option, a pop-up page shows:

> **Note:**
>
> - If "Include Table Index" is checked, the exported file contains all available columns in the cube.
> - If "Include Table Index" is unchecked, the exported file contains only the dimensions and measures defined in the cube, not including the foreign key of the fact table and the primary key of the snapshot table.

**Step 2:** Import TDS file into Tableau

- Copy the TDS file to the environment which tableau installed, and double click on it
- In the pop-up window, enter authorization information.
- Click **OK** 

**Step 3:** In Tableau, check model import, such as dimension, measure etc.


### Method 2: Manually Build Mapping Model

You can connect Kyligence Enterprise through ODBC Driver, and manually map Kyligence model in Tableau

The following detail steps required for mapping data model :

1. Start Tableau, under **Data**>**Connect**>**Other Databases(ODBC)**
2. In the pop-up window, select Driver **Kyligence ODBCDriver**, and click **Connect**
3. In **Connection Attributes**, config the connection information as following, and click **OK** 
- Host
- Port
- Username
- Password
- Project
4. (Or) In the pop-up window, select the existing DSN to connect
5. In Tableau, you need rebuild data model refer to Kyligence Enterprise. How to create model in Tableau please refer to Tableau official website.

### Other Remarks

When you connect Tableau to Kyligence Enterprise, it will send a query which triggers full table scan. This will bring two situations：

####Situations 1：This will take a relatively long time to process the query when the dataset is extremely large. 

There are two ways to avoid this situation

**Method 1**: You can download **Kyligence Tableau Datasource Customization (TDC)** file from Kyligence download center and apply it to your Tableau. This is a Kyligence specific connection configuration file with some capability customizations   which helps Tableau connect to Kyligence . 

Tableau provides a way to customize TDC profiles, hence to meet Kyligence Enterprise's specific query specifications. Below are some advantages:

- Effectively reduce ODBC connection time by reducing the times of probing ODBC connection.
- Provides query specification customization support for Tableau connections and enhance system robustness.


Step 1: Download file named Tableau Datasource Customization on [Kyligence Download](http://download.kyligence.io/#/addons).

Step 2: Copy the file into the required Tableau directory. 

- For Tableau Desktop, the default location is:

`Documents\My Tableau Repository\Datasources`

- For Tableau Server，the default location is： 

Windows environment

`Program Files\Tableau\Tableau Server\<version>\bin`

Or

`ProgramData\Tableau\Tableau Server\data\tabsvc\vizqlserver\Datasources`

Linux environment

`/var/opt/tableau/tableau_server/data/tabsvc/vizqlserver/Datasources/`

> **Note:** The path of datasources applies to operating systems with English locale. If your Tableau is running in a Non-English environment, e.g. in Chinese, the directory "\Datasources" is then called "\数据源".

**Method 2:** You can set the parameter `kylin.query.force-limit` in `kylin.properties` to limit returned records, such as 1000.

####Situations 2： Full table scan will cause Tableau to introduce columns that are not related to the current Cube

Add the configuration item **kap.cube.export-tds-with-cube** in Kyligence Enterprise (the default value is false). When the value is true, the cube name will be added to the exported cube TDS. Opening the TDS file will only display the columns of the current cube.

>**Note**
>+ Kyligence Enterprise 3.4.3 and above support **kap.cube.export-tds-with-cube** parameters;
>+ Kyligence ODBC Driver 3.1.4 and above support TDS cube recognition function;
>+ The **kap.cube.export-tds-with-cube** parameter can be set at the cube, project, and system levels. Configuration method, please refer to[System Configuration](../../../installation/config/README.md). If there is a parameter value conflict, the range of compliance is small. (For example: the parameter value of project1/cube1 is true, and the parameter of project1 is false, then cube1 is processed according to true)
