en/integration/bi/tableau/tableau_desktop.en.md, before:

## Integrate with Tableau Desktop

Tableau is one of the most popular business intelligence applications. It is very easy for users to generate visualized diagrams, stories, and reports on huge amount of data via drag and drop.

Kyligence Enterprise supports integration with Tableau 8.X, 9.X, 10.X, 2018.X, 2019.X, 2020.1 We will use Tableau 2019.2 as an example to introduce how to integrate Kyligence Enterprise with Tableau Desktop.

### Prerequisite

- Install Kyligence ODBC Driver. For the installation information, please refer to [Kyligence ODBC Driver introduction](../../driver/odbc/README.md).

- Install  Tableau Desktop. For the installation information, please refer to [Tableau Desktop Download](https://www.tableau.com/support/releases).

- Configure Tableau Datasource Customization (TDC) 

  Tableau supports configuring TDC files to customize ODBC connections. Therefore, Kyligence provides a TDC file to fit some special rules in Kyligence.

  The configuration steps are as below:

  1. Download the file named Tableau Datasource Customization on [Kyligence Download](http://download.kyligence.io/#/addons).

  2. Copy the file to the required Tableau directory. The default location is: `Documents\My Tableau Repository\Datasources`

This section will introduce two methods available to connect Tableau with Kyligence Enterprise.

- Quick sync up model by using Kyligence Enterprise TDS export function
- Manually build mapping model 

### Method 1: Quick Sync Up Model by Using TDS Import/Export Function

After modeling and creating cube, you can export cube definition as Tableau model definition file in Kyligence Enterprise and import it in Tableau. 

> **Note：** Only Kyligence Enterprise Version 3.0.1 or above supports this approach

Please follow the steps below:

**Step 1:** Export Tableau Data source (TDS) file from Kyligence Enterprise

- Under **Model** > **Cube** module
- Select a **Ready** Cube
- Click **More Action** icon and select **Export TDS** option, a pop-up page shows

![](../../images/tableau_desktop/1_Export_TDS.png)

**Step 2:** Import TDS file into Tableau

- Copy the TDS file to the environment which tableau installed, and double click on it
- In the pop-up window, enter authorization information.
- Click **OK** 

![](../../images/tableau_desktop/2_Connect_Information.png)

**Step 3:** In Tableau, check model import, such as dimension, measure etc.

![](../../images/tableau_desktop/3_Review_Dimension_Measure.png)

**Step 4:** Now you can start to enjoy analyzing with Tableau Desktop

![](../../images/tableau_desktop/4_Charts.png)

### Method 2: Manually Build Mapping Model

You can connect Kyligence Enterprise through ODBC Driver, and manually map Kyligence model in Tableau.

### Connect to Kyligence Enterprise

Open Tableau Desktop, click **Other Database (ODBC)** in the left panel, enter connection authentication information (host port, project, username, password) in the pop-up window, or drop-down to select t the existing DSN, and click **Connection**. After verification, you can get the tables and data with access rights.

> **Note：**When you use **DSN** on Tableau Desktop to connect to Kyligence Enterprise and need to publish the workbook to Tableau Server, you should create a DSN with the same name as the local one on Tableau Server. DSN type must be **System DSN**. If you use the  **Driver**  to connect, you do not need to create a DSN in Tableau Server.

![Connect to Kyligence Enterprise](../../images/tableau_desktop/5_ODBC.png)

### Mapping Data Model

In the left panel of Tableau Desktop, select **default** as the database and click on the **Search** icon in the search box. All tables will be listed. You can drag and drop the tables to the right panel to create the connection between tables and tables.

![Mapping Data Model](../../images/tableau_desktop/6_MODEL.png)

### Live Connection

Two types of data source connection are provided in Tableau. In large data scenarios, please choose **Live** connection.

![Live Connection](../../images/tableau_desktop/7_LIVE.png)

### Custom SQL

If you want to interact through custom SQL, they can click on **New Custom SQL** in the bottom left corner of the model interface, and enter SQL in the pop-up box.

![Custom SQL](../../images/tableau_desktop/8_Custom_SQL.png)

### Visualization

Now you can start to enjoy analyzing with Tableau Desktop.

![Visualization](../../images/tableau_desktop/4_Charts.png)

Commit message:

BI-246 update bi chapter
add tableau connector
add sap bo server
add bip

en/integration/bi/tableau/tableau_desktop.en.md, after:

## Integrate with Tableau Desktop

Tableau is one of the most popular business intelligence applications. It is very easy for users to generate visualized diagrams, stories, and reports on huge amount of data via drag and drop.

Kyligence Enterprise supports integration with Tableau 8.X, 9.X, 10.X, 2018.X, 2019.X, 2020.1 We will use Tableau 2019.2 as an example to introduce how to integrate Kyligence Enterprise with Tableau Desktop.

### Prerequisite

- Install Kyligence ODBC Driver. For the installation information, please refer to [Kyligence ODBC Driver introduction](../../driver/odbc/README.md).
- Install  Tableau Desktop. For the installation information, please refer to [Tableau Desktop Download](https://www.tableau.com/support/releases).

### Configure connection to Kyligence data source

If your Tableau version is 2019.4 and above, please configure Tableau Kyligence connector

1. Download the Kyligence Connector file (.taco) file from [Kyligence Download Center](http://download.kyligence.io/#/download)

2. Copy the .taco file to the Tableau Desktop installation directory, which is

   ```
   Windows: My Documents/My Tableau Repository/Connectors
   macOS: ~/Documents/My Tableau Repository/Connectors 
   ```

    > **Note**：In Tableau 2019.4 to 2020.3.1, Tableau cannot identify a .taco file if your "My Tableau Repository" is in non-English. As a walkaround, You need to place the .taco file in a full English directory and set native_api.connect_plugins_path in your Tableau shortcut to let Tableau be able to identify .taco file. Such walkaround is not needed if you are using Tableau 2020.3.2 and above as Tableau fixed this issue in Tableau 2020.3.2

3. Set the native_api.connect_plugins_path option.

   ```
   tsm configuration set -k native_api.connect_plugins_path -v {custome path}/tableau_connectors
   If you get a configuration error during this step, try adding the --force-keys option to the end of the command.
   ```

4. Restart Tableau Desktop.



If your Tableau version is 2019.4 below, please configure the Tableau Datasource Customization (TDC) file.

> **Note**: Tableau supports configuring TDC files to customize and adjust ODBC connections. In response to this feature, Kyligence provides TDC files that meet Kyligence Enterprise's special query specifications to help Tableau connect with Kyligence better.
> The configuration steps are as follows:

    1. Download the file named Tableau Datasource Customization on [Kyligence Download](http://download.kyligence.io/#/download)
    2. Copy the TDC file to the installation directory of Tableau Desktop. The default directory is `Documents\My Tableau Repository\Datasources`

This section will introduce two methods available to connect Tableau with Kyligence Enterprise.

- Quick sync up model by using Kyligence Enterprise TDS export function
- Manually build mapping model 

### Method 1: Quick Sync Up Model by Using TDS Import/Export Function

After modeling and creating cube, you can export cube definition as Tableau model definition file in Kyligence Enterprise and import it in Tableau. 

> **Note：** Only Kyligence Enterprise Version 3.0.1 or above supports this approach

Please follow the steps below:

**Step 1:** Export Tableau Data source (TDS) file from Kyligence Enterprise

- Under **Model** > **Cube** module
- Select a **Ready** Cube
- Click **More Action** icon and select **Export TDS** option, a pop-up page shows

![](../../images/tableau_desktop/1_Export_TDS.png)

**Step 2:** Import TDS file into Tableau

- Copy the TDS file to the environment which tableau installed, and double click on it
- In the pop-up window, enter authorization information.
- Click **OK** 

![](../../images/tableau_desktop/2_Connect_Information.png)

**Step 3:** In Tableau, check model import, such as dimension, measure etc.

![](../../images/tableau_desktop/3_Review_Dimension_Measure.png)

**Step 4:** Now you can start to enjoy analyzing with Tableau Desktop

![](../../images/tableau_desktop/4_Charts.png)

### Method 2: Manually Build Mapping Model

You can connect Kyligence Enterprise through ODBC Driver, and manually map Kyligence model in Tableau.

### Connect to Kyligence Enterprise

Open Tableau Desktop, click **Other Database (ODBC)** in the left panel, enter connection authentication information (host port, project, username, password) in the pop-up window, or drop-down to select t the existing DSN, and click **Connection**. After verification, you can get the tables and data with access rights.

> **Note：**When you use **DSN** on Tableau Desktop to connect to Kyligence Enterprise and need to publish the workbook to Tableau Server, you should create a DSN with the same name as the local one on Tableau Server. DSN type must be **System DSN**. If you use the  **Driver**  to connect, you do not need to create a DSN in Tableau Server.

![Connect to Kyligence Enterprise](../../images/tableau_desktop/5_ODBC.png)

### Mapping Data Model

In the left panel of Tableau Desktop, select **default** as the database and click on the **Search** icon in the search box. All tables will be listed. You can drag and drop the tables to the right panel to create the connection between tables and tables.

![Mapping Data Model](../../images/tableau_desktop/6_MODEL.png)

### Live Connection

Two types of data source connection are provided in Tableau. In large data scenarios, please choose **Live** connection.

![Live Connection](../../images/tableau_desktop/7_LIVE.png)

### Custom SQL

If you want to interact through custom SQL, they can click on **New Custom SQL** in the bottom left corner of the model interface, and enter SQL in the pop-up box.

![Custom SQL](../../images/tableau_desktop/8_Custom_SQL.png)

### Visualization

Now you can start to enjoy analyzing with Tableau Desktop.

![Visualization](../../images/tableau_desktop/4_Charts.png)
