## Kyligence Enterprise 3.3 Release Notes

We're happy to announce the GA of Kyligence Enterprise 3.3. In this new release, Kyligence Enterprise enables a more flexible deployment mode to support **multi-tenancy** applications and data exchange among multiple data analytics platforms. Support **semi-additive** measure, Oracle database as a new data source, and improve the compatibility with more **Hadoop distributions**.



#### More flexible Multi-tenancy Support and Data Exchange Capability among multiple Analytics Platforms

Enable a more flexible deployment mode to isolate the job and query system. Following a best-pratice release process, Kyligence supports more flexible multi-tenancy applications and data exchanging among multiple data analytics platforms. 



#### Support Semi-additive Measure and Oracle as New Data Source ####

Support semi-additive measure which is normally to analyze account balances, inventory, etc. Therefore, Kyligence provides  high performance analysis capability in financial, warehousing, and human resource scenarios.

Meanwhile, Kyligence Enterprise 3.3.0 supports Oracle as a new data source, which could help you integrate or migrate data from Oracle to Hadoop-based big data platform. 



#### Support More Hadoop Distributions

Support Cloudera CDH 6.0 and MapR 6.0. You can run Kyligence Enterprise on the latest version of the Hadoop platform to leverage the performance and storage efficiency.



### Supported Hadoop Distributions ###

The following Hadoop distributions are verified to run Kyligence Enterprise. The bold are major test versions.

Certified Hadoop Distributions:

* Cloudera CDH 5.7 / **5.8** / 5.11 / 5.12
* MapR  **6.0.1**

Compatible Hadoop Distributions:

* HBase 0.98+，Hive 0.14+
* Hortonworks HDP **2.4** / 2.6
* Huawei FusionInsight C60 / **C70**
* Cloudera CDH 5.13 ~ 5.16 / **6.0** / **6.1**
* Azure HDInsight **3.6**
* AWS EMR 5.14 ~ 5.16 / **5.23**

> The following Hadoop distributions used to be verified but the tests are not maintained any more:
>
> - Hortonworks HDP 2.2
> - MapR 5.2.1

### Product Download

Kyligence Enterprise v3.3 is now available for download. Please visit [Kyligence Download](http://download.kyligence.io/) for more information.
