## Kyligence Enterprise 3.2 Release Notes

We're happy to announce the GA of Kyligence Enterprise 3.2. In this new release, we support the installation package for **MapR** for better compatibility in MapR system. Meanwhile, we add **data volume statistics system**, which is convenient and flexible for users to monitor the usage in project and table level. In addition to this, **Slowly Changing Dimension Type 1** is supported which can cover more business scenarios. For data source compatibility, Impala as data source is supported to offload its analytical workloads.

### Data Volume Statistics System ###

Provides data volume statistics at the project and table level, which is convenient and flexible for enterprise users to manage and analyze the usage.

### Slowly Changing Dimension Type 1 ###

Support SCD1 and SCD2, meeting the business analysis for different slowly changing dimensions requirements and also avoiding the cost for refreshing the cube.

### Impala Data Source ###

Support Impala as data source by SDK extension tools, which improve the compatibility for multiple data sources and reduce the data migration cost.



### Supported Hadoop Distributions ###

Certified Hadoop Distributions:

* Cloudera CDH 5.7/5.8/5.11/5.12
* MapR 5.2.1

Compatible Hadoop Distributions:

* HBase 0.98+，Hive 0.14+
* Hortonworks HDP 2.4/2.6
* Huawei FusionInsight C60/C70/C80



### Product Download

Kyligence Enterprise v3.2 is now available for download. Please visit [Kyligence Account](http://download.kyligence.io/) for more information.