en/introduction/README.md, before:


## Kyligence Analytics Platform

Kyligence Enterprise is a big data analytics product base on Apache Kylin. It provides sub-second SQL query capability on tens of billions of records, enables simple and agile analytic features for enterprise users, analysts and engineers. Kyligence Enterprise has been adopted by many big companies from different industries to tackle various big data challenges.

Kyligence Enterprise offers following features:

* __Sub-second Query Latency__

Queries tens of billions of records at sub-second latency, with high concurrent throughput at the same time. For the first time, interactive big data analysis becomes possible. Support ANSI SQL syntax, zero learning curve for professional analysts.

* __Seamless Integration__

Provides seamless integration with enterprise BI tools and visualization tools, via standard interfaces like ODBC and JDBC, and also flexible REST API. Support popular BI tools like Tableau, Microsoft PowerBI, Microsoft Excel, Apache Zeppelin, Saiku, and more.

* __Self Serving__

Easy-to-use web GUI allows user to build data mart in a self-serving manner, without having to deal with the underlying big data technologies.


* __Extensible Architecture__

Extensible architecture decouples Kyligence Enterprise with computation framework, data source, and storages. Allows flexible choices between alternative technologies like MapReduce and Spark, connects with different data sources and storage. Ensures Kyligence Enterprise can evolve with the best of the big data ecosystem. 


* __Non-Invasive__

Kyligence Enterprise can deploy on a single node of cluster, unpack and run. All interactions to cluster are via standard Hadoop API, minimizing maintenance impact.


For more information, please access Kyligence web site: http://kyligence.io/.

Commit message:

BRIAN_REVIEW_NEW_USERMANUAL
My review comments of new user manual

en/introduction/README.md, after:


## Kyligence Enterpries Overview

Kyligence Enterprise is a Hadoop-based intelligent enterprise big data analytics platform, which provides sub-second query latency on petabyte-scale dataset, makes OLAP (Online Analytical Process-ing) and BI (Business Intelligence) applications work on big data, empowers data analysts and busi-ness users quickly gain insights and business values from huge amounts of data.

Kyligence Enterprise provides a unified big data analytics platform for analysts, data scientists and engineers, enables them work on big data efficiently without requiring any programming skills. Base on Apache Kylin, Kyligence Enterprise makes comprehensive innovations and enhancements in performance, security, and stability, provides a next generation enterprise solution for big data analytics.

Kyligence Enterprise has following key strengths:

- High performance, sub-second query latency
- Fusional big data warehouse architecture
- Intelligent SQL acceleration
- Seamless integration with BI tools
- Comprehensive enterprise-level features					

​					

### About Kyligence

Kyligence is a data-tech company focusing on big data analytics and founded by the team who created Apache Kylin – the first top-level project in Apache Software Foundation (ASF) from China. Powered by Apache Kylin, Kyligence provides Kyligence Enterprise – an intelligent enterprise big data analytics platform for the on-premise market, and also Kyligence Cloud for the cloud solution. Kyligence has won lots of well-known customers across different industries including Huawei, China Unicom, OPPO, SAIC, Pacific Insurance Group, China UnionPay, Guotai Junan Securities, Xinhe. With two headquarters located in China (Shanghai) and US (Silicon Valley), Kyligence also sets up offices in Beijing, Shenzhen, etc. Kyligence has been recognized and venture-backed by Redpoint, Cisco, China Broadband Capital, Shunwei Capital and Eight Roads Ventures (Fidelity International Limited).



### About Apache Kylin					

Apache Kylin is a leading open source OLAP (online analytics processing) engine for Big Data capable for sub-second query latency on trillions of records. Since being created and open sourced by eBay in 2014, and graduated to Top Level Project of Apache Software Foundation in 2015, Kylin has quickly be adopted by thousands of organizations world widely as their critical analytics application for Big Data. Apache Kylin won Info Word Bossie Awards: The Best Open Source Big Data Tool in the year 2015 and 2016.
