en/troubleshooting/alerting.en.md, before:

# Job Alert

In KAP, building a Cube often takes at least a few minutes. Therefore, when a Cube build job is completed or failed, the operation and maintenance personals often want to be notified at the first time for the following incremental construction and troubleshooting. KAP provides a message notification function, which can send emails to Cube administrators when Cube status changed. 



## Setting Steps

Users want to set the job alert by e-mail, then they need to set in the configuration file kylin.properties: `mail.enabled`  set it as true to start mail notification function; `mail.host` Set it as the SMTP server address for the mail; `mail.username` set it as the SMTP login user name for the mail; `mail.password` set it as the SMTP login password; `mail.sender` set it as the send e-mail address. After all these setting completed, restart KAP service and these setting would work. 

The next, users need to configure for Cube. First set Cube's email contactors as email notification recipients, which shown as follow:![](images/alerting/job_alert_en_1.png)

Besides, select some status as the trigger condition for the message notification. Send a message to the users if the Cube build job is switched to these states.![](images/alerting/job_alert_en_2.png)

Commit message:

Modified CN/EN version of "alerting" and "KyBot" (#219)
* modified "alerting" page

* deleted blank space

* modified Chinese Version of  "diag"

* modified KyBot Summary

* modified the Chinese version of "Kybot"

* modified Chinese version of "KyBot Case"

* modified kybot related

* modified English version of "service status"

* modified english version of xxx

* modified manual according to comments

en/troubleshooting/alerting.en.md, after:

# Job Alert
Kyligence Enterprise provides *Email Notification* function, will send emails to Cube administrators when Cube status changes, which helps DevOps to troubleshoot or incremental build rapidly.

### How to enable *Email Notification* function
#### 1. Following configurations in `kylin.properties` is required,

```
kylin.job.notification-enabled=true|false  # set to true to enable the function
kylin.job.notification-mail-enable-starttls=true|false    
kylin.job.notification-mail-host=your-smtp-server  # address of SMTP server
kylin.job.notification-mail-port=your-smtp-port  # port of SMTP server
kylin.job.notification-mail-username=your-smtp-account  # SMTP account username
kylin.job.notification-mail-password=your-smtp-pwd  # SMTP account password
kylin.job.notification-mail-sender=your-sender-address  # sender address
kylin.job.notification-admin-emails=adminstrator-address 
```
*Restart Kyligence Enterprise* to make configurations work.

#### 2.Setting in the Cube Design Page
Modelers and Analysts need to fill in the `Notification Email List` with their email addresses in the `Cube info` Page when designing a Cube, as shown in the following picture.
![](images/alerting/job_alert_en_1.png)

More detailed trigger condition for notification can be selected in the `Notification Events`, which means when Cube status turns to the specific  condition, email notification will be sent, as shown in the following picture.
![](images/alerting/job_alert_en_2.png)
