en/troubleshooting/service_status.en.md, before:

## Service Status

Since KAP V2.5.6, the service status is provided for ADMIN users to check the environment dependency, which will be checked every 15 minutes.

![service status](images/service_status.en.png)

This function will mainly focus on these aspects：

- Metastore availability：check the connectivity, functionality, and response of metastore 
- Hive connectivity：check the connectivity of Hive/Beeline and usability of kerberos ticket
- Metadata consistency：check the consistency and integrity of metadata
- Metadata synchronization：check the synchronous exception of metadata and reload metadata automatically
- Spark context availability：check the availability of  pushdown spark cluster
- Zookeeper availability：check the connectivity of zookeeper including response and functionality
- Job engine：check the availablity of job engine

Service status uses green, yellow and red to show *health*, *warning* and *crash*. Users could also move the mouse to specific items to get the detailed information.

Commit message:

update command line in service status

en/troubleshooting/service_status.en.md, after:

## Service Status Check

Since KAP V2.5.6, the service status is provided for ADMIN users to check the environment dependency, which will be checked every 15 minutes.

![service status](images/service_status.en.png)

This function will mainly focus on these aspects：

- Metastore availability：check the connectivity, functionality, and response of metastore 
- Hive connectivity：check the connectivity of Hive/Beeline and usability of kerberos ticket
- Metadata consistency：check the consistency and integrity of metadata
- Metadata synchronization：check the synchronous exception of metadata and reload metadata automatically
- Spark context availability：check the availability of  pushdown spark cluster
- Zookeeper availability：check the connectivity of zookeeper including response and functionality
- Job engine：check the availablity of job engine

Service status uses green, yellow and red to show *health*, *warning* and *crash*. Users could also move the mouse to specific items to get the detailed information.

### Using command line to diagnose separately

KAP supports to use command lines to diagnose the individual service status. Meanwhile, the results will be stored in a log file named *canary.log* , which will also be stored in the KyBot diagnostic package.

You can run the following command lines in `$KYLIN_HOME/bin`

`./kylin.sh io.kyligence.kap.canary.CanaryCommander <canaries-to-test>`

> <canaries-to-test> could be replaced as the following parameters :
>
> •MetaStore availability: MetaStoreCanary 
>
> •Hive connection test: HiveCanary
>
> •Metadata consistency: MetadataCanary
>
> •Metadata synchronization: MetaSyncErrorCanary
>
> •Zookeeper availability: ZookeeperCanary
>
> •Job engine availability: JobEngineCanary
>
> The command line is not currently supported to diagnose Spark context availablity.

![canary command line](images/canary.png)
