en/model/cube_design/verify_sql.en.md, before:

## Verify SQL 

You might be wondering when you design a cube/model: will this cube/model be able to answer all my SQLs? Kyligence Enterprise helps you verify this by providing a ***Verify SQL*** action, before you actually start to build the cube . 



### Verify Approach

Step 1, after you finish cube/model design and save it, you can do the ***verify SQL*** action from action list on the cube/model.

![](images/verify_sql/model_action.png)

![](images/verify_sql/cube_action.png)



Step 2, paste or manually enter SQLs you want to verify, which are often queried. 

![](images/verify_sql/SQL_input.png)



Step 3, click ***verify*** and this action may take a while. If the cube/model is designed appropriately, it can answer all entered queries, you will get the following result.

![](images/verify_sql/SQL_valid.png)



Step 4, if there are queries cannot pass the verification test, it will be listed after "x". You can click the "x" to get details about ***why*** this query cannot work and ***how*** to refine SQL or cube/model to make it work.

![](images/verify_sql/show_error.png)

![](images/verify_sql/error_details.png)

Commit message:

modify pic caption and add cube build folder (#635)
* add pic caption for DATA SOURCE module

* model design and cube design

* measures

* data source brief intro

* measures brief intro

* add cube build folder

* correct outline

en/model/cube_design/verify_sql.en.md, after:

## Verify SQL 

You might be wondering when you design a cube/model: will this cube/model be able to answer all my SQLs? Kyligence Enterprise helps you verify this by providing a ***Verify SQL*** action, before you actually start to build the cube . 



### Verify Approach

Step 1, after you finish cube/model design and save it, you can do the ***verify SQL*** action from action list on the cube/model.

![Check SQL in model](images/verify_sql/model_action.png)

![Check SQL in Cube](images/verify_sql/cube_action.png)



Step 2, paste or manually enter SQLs you want to verify, which are often queried. 

![Enter SQL](images/verify_sql/SQL_input.png)



Step 3, click ***verify*** and this action may take a while. If the cube/model is designed appropriately, it can answer all entered queries, you will get the following result.

![Check finished](images/verify_sql/SQL_valid.png)



Step 4, if there are queries cannot pass the verification test, it will be listed after "x". You can click the "x" to get details about ***why*** this query cannot work and ***how*** to refine SQL or cube/model to make it work.

![Failed SQL](images/verify_sql/show_error.png)

![Failed SQL](images/verify_sql/error_details.png)
