en/installation/deploy/ha.en.md, before:

## Service Discovery and Job Engine HA

### Service Discovery

Kyligence Enterprise supports service discovery from 2.0. Multiple Kyligence Enterprise instances can work together as a cluster. When a Kyligence Enterprise instance is started, stopped or lost, other instances in the cluster will notice and then update automatically. Now Kyligence Enterprise has a new implementation based on Apache Curator framework, which is handier and stabler. 

Service Discovery based on Curator is enabled by default. When HBase metadata store is NOT chosen, you'll need to additionally configure zookeeper address in `$KYLIN_HOME/conf/kylin.properties`, for instance:

```properties
kylin.env.zookeeper-connect-string=host1:2181,host2:2181,host3:2181
```
> Notice: you can run the following command to see if the result ends in `@hbase`. That will help you to determine whether the Metastore used is HBase:
>
> ```shell
> $KYLIN_HOME/bin/get-properties.sh kylin.metadata.url
> ```

After the configuration, restart Kyligence Enterprise. Each Kyligence Enterprise instance will register itself in Zookeeper, and each one will discover other instances from Zookeeper. 

By default, Kyligence Enterprise will use hostname as the node name and the HTTP port in `$KYLIN_HOME/tomcat/conf/server.xml` as the service port, such as `slave1:7070`. If the cluster that you run Kyligence Enterprise can't parse the host name to IP address through DNS and other services, you should display the REST address of the specified Kyligence Enterprise before you start Kyligence Enterprise. This can avoid communication errors between Kyligence Enterprise servers. For example:

```shell
export KYLIN_REST_ADDRESS=10.0.0.100:7070
$KYLIN_HOME/bin/kylin.sh start
```

### Job Engine HA

Kyligence job engine executes Cube building tasks and notifies user and update Cube statement when tasks finished. This engine is usually assumed by one node specified by the user in the cluster. 

When you enable service discovery, the job engine role will be assigned dynamically among the instances. When job engine is stopped in one instance, other instances will take over. That will ensure the high availability of Kyligence Enterprise services. 

> Notice: You can view the settings file`$KYLIN_HOME/conf/kylin.properties` to see if the instance can act as a job engine. If the value of `kylin.server.mode` configuration item is set to` all `or `job`, then the node can act as a job engine.

If you don't expect job engine be executed on some Kyligence Enterprise instances, just configure in `$KYLIN_HOME/conf/kylin.properties`as below to make the instance run as *query* mode:

```properties
kylin.server.mode=query
```

Each of the Kyligence Enterprise nodes could accept the Cube build requests, and all requests are appended to the building queue. The current active `job` node will submit the Cube build job into the Hadoop/Spark cluster. 

If the existing `job` node failed, one of the other Kyligence Enterprise nodes whose mode is `job` or `all` will be selected as the new active `job` node. It will track the Cube build progress and process later build requests. If no active `job` node exists, build job will fail.

Commit message:

Ke 12968 1 (#937)
* Doc for Multi-Active Mode

* review

* Update canary doc for Multi-Active

* remove virtual node config

* fix comment

en/installation/deploy/ha.en.md, after:

## Service Discovery and Job Engine HA

### Service Discovery

Kyligence Enterprise supports service discovery from 2.0. Multiple Kyligence Enterprise instances can work together as a cluster. When a Kyligence Enterprise instance is started, stopped or lost, other instances in the cluster will notice and then update automatically. 

Kyligence Enterprise uses Zookeeper for cluster management. If you are not using HBase as metastore, please additionally configure zookeeper address in `$KYLIN_HOME/conf/kylin.properties`:

```properties
kylin.env.zookeeper-connect-string=host1:2181,host2:2181,host3:2181
```
> **Note**: You can confirm your metastore by the command below, checking if the metadata URL ends with `@hbase`.
>
> ```shell
> $KYLIN_HOME/bin/get-properties.sh kylin.metadata.url
> ```

After the configuration, restart Kyligence Enterprise. Each Kyligence Enterprise instance will register itself in Zookeeper, instances having the same metadata URL will discover each other and form a Kyligence Enterprise cluster automatically.

By default, Kyligence Enterprise will use hostname as the node name and the HTTP port in `$KYLIN_HOME/tomcat/conf/server.xml` as the service port, such as `slave1:7070`. If the cluster that you run Kyligence Enterprise can't parse the host name to IP address through DNS and other services, you should display the REST address of the specified Kyligence Enterprise before you start Kyligence Enterprise. This can avoid communication errors between Kyligence Enterprise servers. For example:

```shell
export KYLIN_REST_ADDRESS=10.0.0.100:7070
$KYLIN_HOME/bin/kylin.sh start
```

### Multi-Active Job Engines

Kyligence job engine executes cube building tasks and notifies user and update cube status when jobs finished. One or more nodes can be specified as job engine in the cluster. 

To set a node as job engine, please configure `$KYLIN_HOME/conf/kylin.properties`:

```properties
kylin.server.mode=job
```

> **Tips**: When resource is limited, you can set `kylin.server.mode=all` to let a node as job engine and query engine at the same time. However this is not recommended for production environment.

Since Kyligence Enterprise 3.4.0, Kyligence Enterprise works "Multi-Active" mode, which meanings every healthy job engine can execute cube building tasks. When one job engine is stopped, the other job engines will take over
the running task on it. That will ensure the high availability of Kyligence Enterprise services and improve the concurrency building capabilities.

> **Note**：
>
> 1. The distribution of jobs among multiple job nodes are done by consistent hash algorithm. The distribution is mostly uniform but not completely.
> 2. The task scheduling is mostly FIFO, however not strict FIFO globally. Once a task is assigned to a node, it is FIFO in the job queue managed by that job node.

If you don't expect job engine be executed on some Kyligence Enterprise instances, just configure in `$KYLIN_HOME/conf/kylin.properties`as below to make the instance run as *query* node:

```properties
kylin.server.mode=query
```

Each of the Kyligence Enterprise nodes can accept the cube build requests, and all requests are first appended to a global waiting queue, waiting for job node to pick up and process.
