en/model/data_import/hive_import.en.md, before:

## Import Hive Data Source

Kyligence Enterprise supports accessing *Hive* tables. 

This chapter will introduce how to access hive tables as data source. Following are the instructions.

### Prepare Sample Datasets

You can import the Kyligence Enterprise built-in sample data into Hive using executable scripts.

The script is `sample.sh.`. Its default storage path is the bin directory under `KYLIN_HOME`.

```shell
$KYLIN_HOME/bin/sample.sh
```

> Tips: After sample.sh is executed, it is required to choose **Reload Metadata** under the **System** page. Otherwise, there will be errors in data modeling. 

Once the script is complete, execute the following commands in Hive shell to confirm the tables are imported successfully.

```hive
hive
```

Check the imported hive tables.

```shell
hive> show tables;
```

Check the details of imported hive tables.

```shell
hive> select count(*) from kylin_sales;
```

### Create Project with Hive Data Source

1. Log in to Kyligence Enterprise Web UI
2. Add a new project by clicking the `+` at the top right on Web UI.
3. Type project name (required) and descriptions on the pop up page; click `OK` to finish creating a project.
4. Select `Data Source` under *Studio* section of your project.
5. Click the blue `Data Source` button.
6. Select Hive as data source (as shown below).

![](images/dataimport_3.png)

7. Click `NEXT` and enter the *Load Hive Table Metadata* page; you can select tables you want from *Hive Table* on the left.

8. Click `sync` to load the data. 

   ![](images/dataimport_4.png)

   > By default, Kyligence Enterprise does not select data sample. Users have options to do it and select sample size.

9. Once the synchronization is finished, select specific tables and check the details under *Data Source* section.

![](images/dataimport_5.png)

Commit message:

3.2.1 doc issue (#575)
* #7347 remove configuration

* #5546 support keyword search when load tables

* Update rdbms_import.en.md

en/model/data_import/hive_import.en.md, after:

## Import Hive Data Source

Kyligence Enterprise supports accessing *Hive* tables. 

This chapter will introduce how to access hive tables as data source. Following are the instructions.

### Prepare Sample Datasets

You can import the Kyligence Enterprise built-in sample data into Hive using executable scripts.

The script is `sample.sh.`. Its default storage path is the bin directory under `KYLIN_HOME`.

```shell
$KYLIN_HOME/bin/sample.sh
```

> Tips: After sample.sh is executed, it is required to choose **Reload Metadata** under the **System** page. Otherwise, there will be errors in data modeling. 

Once the script is complete, execute the following commands in Hive shell to confirm the tables are imported successfully.

```hive
hive
```

Check the imported hive tables.

```shell
hive> show tables;
```

Check the details of imported hive tables.

```shell
hive> select count(*) from kylin_sales;
```

### Create Project with Hive Data Source

1. Log in to Kyligence Enterprise Web UI
2. Add a new project by clicking the `+` at the top right on Web UI.
3. Type project name (required) and descriptions on the pop up page; click `OK` to finish creating a project.
4. Select `Data Source` under *Studio* section of your project.
5. Click the blue `Data Source` button.
6. Select Hive as data source (as shown below).

![](images/dataimport_3.png)

7. Click `NEXT` and enter the *Load Hive Table Metadata* page; you can select tables you want from *Hive Table* on the left. Keyword search is also supported.

8. Click `sync` to load the data. 

   ![](images/dataimport_4.png)

   > By default, Kyligence Enterprise does not select data sample. Users have options to do it and select sample size.

9. Once the synchronization is finished, select specific tables and check the details under *Data Source* section.

![](images/dataimport_5.png)
